                   DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE WASHINGTON DC   AFGM2017-10-01 13 February 2017 MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs FROM:  HQ USAF/A3 1630 Air Force Pentagon Washington DC 20330-1630 SUBJECT:  Air Force Guidance Memorandum for Expeditionary Readiness RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. SUPERSEDES:  AFI 36-2201, Chapter 8. 1.  By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, the guidance contained in the attachment to this Air Force Guidance Memorandum is effective upon approval.  Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory.  To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. 2.  In advance of the publication of a new Air Force instruction, the attachment to this memorandum provides guidance on Expeditionary Readiness Program (ERP) roles and responsibilities, the structure of Expeditionary Readiness Training (ERT), and the process for injecting new training requirements. 3.  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  This memorandum supersedes AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, Chapter 8, 15 September 2010.  The OPR for this memorandum is AF/A3XM. 4.  This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum, or upon release of an Air Force publication incorporating the guidance, whichever is earlier. 5.  Air Force Expeditionary Readiness POC for the Guidance Memorandum is Mr. Dave King, HQ AF/A3XMQ, DSN 754-5472, e-mail: david.j.king.ctr@mail.mil.  Attachment Expeditionary Readiness Guidance SCOTT A. VANDER HAMM,  Assistant DCS, Operations    Attachment Expeditionary Readiness Guidance This publication applies to all Air Force personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. This guidance is effective 1 October 2015. 1.  Expeditionary Readiness Program. 1.1.  Overview. 1.1.1.  The Expeditionary Readiness Program (ERP) encompasses all non-AFSC related training required of a deployment ready Airman not routinely acquired during initial, occupational or other ancillary training.  The ERP focuses on the knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) required of an Airman to survive, operate and succeed in a deployed environment across the full Range of Military Operations (ROMO), while reinforcing a “strong warrior ethos.” 1.1.2.  Some of these skills are provided through formal training in a few career fields (e.g., Combat Control, Pararescue, Security Forces).  This formal training is not considered part of the ERP, and therefore not governed by this guidance memorandum. 1.2.  ERP Oversight.  Oversight of ERP is accomplished by the Expeditionary Readiness Senior Authority (ERSA) and the Expeditionary Readiness Council (ERC). 1.2.1.  The AF/A35 serves as the ERSA and is the “gatekeeper” for all Expeditionary Readiness Training (ERT) requirements.  The strategic goal of the ERSA is to provide broad guidance for institutional readiness competency development to improve the focus, currency and relevancy of AF readiness curricula and training. 1.2.2.  The ERC is an O-6 (or civilian equivalent) body that provides Expeditionary Readiness (ER) policy and guidance recommendations to the ERSA to meet AF ER requirements.  This construct establishes AF advocacy of ER initiatives by ensuring ownership at appropriate levels, with the goal of meeting validated requirements.  The ERC should request assistance from AF Forces (AFFOR) staffs, functional communities, MAJCOMs and the Installation and Mission Support Center (IMSC), as necessary. 1.2.2.1.  The ERC performs the ERSA’s “gatekeeper” function by vetting new ERT requirements or ERT course upgrades, working to reduce/eliminate redundant courses within the ER enterprise, establish priorities and determine efficient delivery options.  The ERC ensures: 1.2.2.1.1.  Proposals are targeted to the correct audience via the appropriate delivery method. 1.2.2.1.2.  Proposals are properly defined and clearly identify the training objectives. 1.2.2.1.3.  There is an implementation/replacement strategy for existing requirements. 1.2.2.1.4.  The “cost”, to include time, to accommodate the new requirement has been identified. 1.2.2.1.5.  Views of others are properly adjudicated. 1.2.2.1.6.  Recommendations are provided to the AF/A35. 1.2.2.1.7.  Any increase in the amount of time an Airman will spend in pre-deployment training, whether by adding a new course or increasing the length of an existing course must be approved by AF/A35. (T-1). 1.2.2.2.  Members include AF/A3XM (Chair), AETC/A3Q (Secretariat), AF/A1DL, ACC/A3O, AFPC/DPAW, USAF Expeditionary Operations School (USAF EOS), 602 TRG(P), AFRC/A4C, NGB/A7, AF Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC), AF Security Forces Center (AFSFC). Representatives from other organizations (Air Staff, MAJCOMs, AFFORs) may be invited, as required. 1.3.  Responsibilities.  (See Figure 1-1 for ERP Organizational Relationships) 1.3.1.  Director of Operations & Readiness (AF/A35).  Serves as the ERSA. 1.3.1.1.  AF Global Mobility (AF/A3XM).  ERC Chair. 1.3.1.1.1.  Issues and oversees training policy and guidance to meet AF deployment readiness requirements. 1.3.1.1.2.  Establishes policy for developing and publishing of Program Requirements Documents (PRD) and Program Guidance Letter (PGL) specific to ERT. 1.3.1.1.3.  Conducts, with AETC/A3Q, an annual review of Combatant Commander (CCDR)/AF training requirements. 1.3.1.1.4.  Validates and recommends establishment, sustainment and resourcing of deployment readiness requirements. 1.3.2.  Force Development Learning Division (AF/A1DL).  ERC member.  Serves as a conduit to the Air Force Learning Council (AFLC) to ensure consistency between Expeditionary and other training requirements. 1.3.3.  Other Headquarters AF (HAF) Directorates/Functional Communities (e.g., AF/SG, AF/JA). 1.3.3.1.  Provides HQ USAF-level guidance and subject matter expertise for the development of ERT course material to meet AF and supported CCDR requirements, as applicable. 1.3.3.2.  Participate in periodic reviews of ERT requirements. 1.3.3.3.  Consider including ERT in initial occupational training to help Airmen establish/maintain a “strong warrior ethos.” 1.3.3.4.  Serve as OPR for development of courses to meet AF and supported CCDR requirements to a permissive environment where applicable (e.g.; Law of Armed Conflict [AF/JA], Self-Aid and Buddy Care [SABC] [AF/SG]). 1.3.4.  Directorate of Personnel Operations (AFPC/DPAW).  ERC member.  Responsible for executing the Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) battle rhythm by centrally managing the scheduling and recommended sourcing of Agile Combat Support forces to meet CCDR requirements.  Manages the AEF Online website which includes such tools as Commander’s Tool Kit (CCTK), Pre-deployment Training Tool (PDTT), Air Force Reporting Instructions Tool (AFRIT), Personal Deployment Preparedness Tool (PDPT) and Electronic Deployment Readiness Folder (e-DRC). 1.3.5.  ACC Operations Division (ACC/A3O).  ERC member. 1.3.5.1.  Determines through the Request For Forces (RFF) process if specific individuals, teams or categories of personnel require training beyond the minimum requirements specified by ERT. 1.3.5.2.  Approve/disapprove individual request for waiver of mandatory training requirements. 1.3.5.3.  Approve/disapprove functional courses as meeting AF and/or theater entry requirements (See paragraph 2.3, Training Exemption). 1.3.5.4.  Participates in Combatant Command (CCMD) ERT working groups, as required, and coordinates with Air Education and Training Command (AETC) to determine training requirements for individuals/teams expected to deploy. 1.3.6.  AETC Directorate of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear Integration (AETC A2/3/10). The A2/3/10 is an ERSA advisor. 1.3.6.1.  Special Missions Training Division (AETC/A3Q).  ERC Secretariat. 1.3.6.1.1.  Develops policy/guidance recommendations for presentation to the ERC. 1.3.6.1.2.  Standardizes, synchronizes and integrates cross-functional ERT. 1.3.6.1.3.  Works with HAF and applicable CCMD, through their AFFOR staffs, to identify and establish ERT requirements. 1.3.6.1.4.  Determines appropriate placement of training requirements within ERT Continuum of Learning (CoL). 1.3.6.1.5.  Coordinates with MAJCOMs and executing agencies to develop and implement training, when required. 1.3.6.1.6.  Schedules personnel for required cross-functional Advanced Deployment Readiness (ADR) courses. 1.3.6.1.7.  Develops and reports production metrics. 1.3.6.1.8.  Develops and implements tools to collect feedback from former ERT students. 1.3.6.1.9.  Analyzes Lessons Learned (L2) and presents recommendations to ERC for endorsement. 1.3.6.1.10.  Coordinates initiatives and issues prior to presentation to ERC. 1.3.7.  AF IMSC.  The IMSC/ESD is an advisor to the ERSA. 1.3.7.1.  Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC).  ERC member. 1.3.7.1.1.  Provides HQ USAF-level guidance and subject matter expertise for the development of ERT course material to meet AF and supported CCDR requirements, as applicable. 1.3.7.1.2.  Participate in periodic reviews of ERT requirements. 1.3.7.2.  Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC).  ERC member. 1.3.7.2.1.  Provides subject matter expertise for the development of ERT course material to meet AF and supported CCDR requirements, as applicable. 1.3.7.2.2.  Participate in periodic reviews of ERT requirements. 1.3.8.  USAF EC.  The USAF EC/CC is an advisor to the ERSA. 1.3.8.1.  Expeditionary Operations School (EOS). ERC Member. 1.3.8.1.1.  Develops and executes ADR courses based on training requirements validated by the ERC and incorporates L2 where appropriate. 1.38.1.2. Determines resources required to develop a new ADR course or modify an existing course and works with Air Mobility Command (AMC) for Program Objective Memorandum (POM) funding. 1.3.8.1.3.  Develops annual course schedules to meet ADR course throughput requirements. 1.3.8.1.4.  Manages ADR student accounting and tracking. 1.3.8.1.5.  Gathers, refines, disseminates and is the repository for ER TTPs.  Works with AETC/A3Q and ERT executing agencies to incorporate latest TTPs into training programs, where appropriate. 1.3.9.  Second Air Force (2 AF).  The 2 AF/CC is an advisor to the ERSA. 1.3.9.1.  602 TRG(P).  Member of the ERC.  Provides Administrative Control (ADCON) and scheduling of Joint Expeditionary Tasking (JET) Airmen attending Army combat skills training. 1.3.10.  AFRC/A4C.  ERC member.  Provides advice and subject matter expertise on ERP issues affecting the Total Force while ensuring ARC-unique issues and concerns are addressed. 1.3.11.  NGB/A7.  ERC member. Provides advice and subject matter expertise on ERP issues affecting the Total Force while ensuring ANG-unique issues and concerns are addressed. 1.3.12.  C-MAJCOMs/C-NAFs. 1.3.12.1.  Determines ERT requirements for individuals/teams expected to deploy to their theater. 1.3.12.2.  Determines and communicates, through the RFF process, if specific individuals, teams, or categories of personnel require training beyond the minimum requirements identified on the AEF Online, Pre-Deployment Training Information page. 1.3.12.3.  Participates in ER training working groups, as required.        Figure 1-1 ERP Organizational Relationships 2.  Expeditionary Readiness Training. 2.1.  Overview.  The AF must train like it fights and continually assess ERT across the AF CoL to produce Airmen ready to support all CCMDs.  ERT must be relevant, timely, synchronized, standardized and integrated to ensure CCMDs are provided a standard presentation of forces to support specified mission requirements, while maximizing efficiency.  Refer to Figure 2-1 for an overview of ERT. Figure 2-1 Expeditionary Readiness Training  2.2.  Categories. ERT is divided into three categories to ensure Airmen receive training when needed: Basic Airman Readiness (BAR); Basic Deployment Readiness (BDR); and Advanced Deployment Readiness (ADR).  2.2.1.  All Airmen will receive BAR training as they prepare for their postured AEF vulnerability period.  Only Airmen tasked to deploy, or those whose battle rhythms will be managed internally, are required to accomplish BDR training.  Finally, Airmen tasked to deploy to an uncertain or hostile environment will also attend an ADR course. (T-1). 2.2.2.  Airmen should refer to the AEF Online, Pre-deployment Training Information page (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Predeployment.aspx) for BAR and BDR training requirements and frequencies and accomplish those requirements, IAW the posted checklists. 2.2.3.  Basic Airman Readiness (BAR) training.  Delivered to all Airmen through accessions, initial occupational training, and Home-Station training and aligned with the AEF Battle Rhythm.  The primary focus of this training is to help Airmen establish/maintain a “strong warrior ethos” while also providing them a solid foundation for those KSAs that prepare them to survive, operate, and succeed across the full ROMO.  This training is a prerequisite for BDR and ADR training. 2.2.3.1.  Some ERT, while not specifically developed for accessions and initial occupational training, is embedded in their curriculum and designed to meet specific AF accessions and/or initial occupational skills education and training requirements.  If ERT is included in accessions or initial occupational training courses, AETC will ensure the executed ER KSAs are standardized in relation to all other ERT. (T-1). 2.2.3.2.  BAR training delivered at an Airman's home station may be a mix of on-line and hands- on training. 2.2.3.3.  Airmen should refer to AEF Online, Pre-deployment Training Information page (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Predeployment.aspx), for training requirements and frequencies and accomplish those requirements IAW their assigned AEF Indicator (AEFI) and the appropriate checklist. 2.2.4.  Basic Deployment Readiness (BDR).  Delivered at the wing level in alignment with the AEF Battle Rhythm.  Commanders will provide BDR training to all Airmen tasked to deploy, or those whose battle rhythms will be managed internally. (T-1).  Training is: 2.2.4.1.  Designed to meet AF and supported CCDR requirements for deployment to a permissive environment (as defined in JP 1-02). 2.2.4.2.  Dependent on receipt of a deployment tasking and comprised of on-line courses, classroom, and hands-on instruction completed at home-station. 2.2.4.3.  Airmen should refer to AEF Online, Pre-deployment Training Information page (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Predeployment.aspx), for training requirements and frequencies and accomplish those requirements IAW the posted checklists. 2.2.5.  Advanced Deployment Readiness (ADR) training.  Enhanced ERT designed to provide Airmen with individual force protection skills required to survive and operate in an uncertain or hostile environment. 2.2.5.1.  ADR training is directed in the force generation process.  Required ADR course(s) are identified in appropriate line remarks and/or reporting instructions. 2.2.5.2.  Airmen tasked to deploy to an uncertain or hostile environment will attend an ADR training course that, as a minimum, meets AF requirements associated with the operating environment and any CCDR specific requirements, as identified on the AEF Online – Pre- deployment Training Information page (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Predeployment.aspx). (T-1). 2.2.5.3.  Completion of this advanced training prepares an Airman to operate in an uncertain or hostile environment for a specific deployment tasking. 2.2.5.4.  This training is completed prior to every deployment when conditions above are met. 2.2.6.  Whenever possible, Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) is the preferred method for completing BAR/BDR.  Airmen who complete their training on ADLS will have their records updated automatically.  However, units have the option to download BAR/BDR computer-based training to a local server and deliver the courses “off-line” to individuals as needed. 2.2.6.1.  For downloaded CBTs, unit training managers must certify completion and update ADLS for members to ensure full credit. 2.3.  Training Exemptions.  Some Airmen/career fields/units maintain a high state of readiness with regard to ERT skills due to job responsibilities or functional training (e.g., SABC for identified medical personnel and Counter-Improvised Explosive Device [C-IED] for EOD personnel).  In an effort to save Airmen’s time and eliminate duplication of training, an Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) or MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) may request an exemption from attending/taking mandated pre-deployment training redundant to the KSAs in which proficiency is maintained.  Training exemption requests are routed through owning MAJCOM/directorate to AETC/A3Q and must explain how career field training and activities meet the applicable pre-deployment requirements. 2.3.1.  AETC/A3Q will validate whether or not the proposed “equivalent training” meets specific pre-deployment training requirement(s). (T-1). AETC/A3Q requires the following documents to consider an exemption request: 2.3.1.1.  Formal training documentation (lesson plans, briefings, CBTs, curriculum, training plans, etc.) showing how this training meets or exceeds the required training standards (e.g., theater entry requirements). 2.3.1.2.  Documentation showing the unit’s instructor training and certification processes. 2.3.2.  AETC/A3Q may be required to conduct a site visit as part of the validation process. 2.3.3.  If AETC/A3Q validates the “equivalent training” meets all requirements, they send a memo to the requestor, with a courtesy copy to the applicable AF Force Provider A3.  The requestor can then forward an exemption request to the applicable AF Force Provider A3. 2.3.4.  Once the applicable AF Force Provider A3 approves the exemption, specified Airmen are exempt from attending the equivalent ERT course(s). Exemptions are valid until the training no longer meets criteria or until the training is no longer required. 2.3.5.  AETC/A3Q will review courses annually, or upon a significant change in training requirements or course curriculum using the same process identified above.  The AFCFM/MFM must notify AETC/A3Q of significant curriculum changes affecting expeditionary KSAs. (T-1). 2.3.6.  AETC/A3Q will publish the list of approved training exemptions on AEF Online, Pre- deployment Training  Information page (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Predeployment.aspx). (T-1). 3.  Training Requirements.  3.1.  Training Proposals.  All requests for new or revised pre-deployment training requirements will be submitted to AETC/A3Q, through AF/A3XM, using a Training Requirements Approval Request Form (Attachment 1). (T-1). 3.2.  Training Requirements Management Process (Figure 3.1). 3.2.1.  AETC/A3Q conducts an initial review of all requests for new training to determine whether it falls within the scope of ERT using the following criteria: 3.2.1.1.  Develops KSAs that instill combat capabilities required of deployment-ready Airmen to survive, operate and succeed across the full ROMO while reinforcing a strong warrior ethos. 3.2.1.2.  Targets KSAs not routinely acquired during occupational and/or other ancillary training venues (i.e., cross-functional). 3.2.1.3.  Meets CCDR and/or AF requirements. 3.2.1.4.  Fulfills legal requirements, CCDR requirements and DOD or AF policy mandates. 3.2.2.  If the request does not meet these basic criteria, AETC/A3Q redirects the request to a more appropriate organization. 3.2.3.  If the requested training broadly meets the above criteria, then AETC/A3Q will: (T-1). 3.2.3.1.  Ensure requirements are written in an executable manner. 3.2.3.2.  Determine proper placement within the ERT construct, which agency is best suited to develop the training and whether to modify a current course or create a new course. 3.2.4.  The agency chosen to execute the training will develop courses of action (COAs) to include course resource estimates. (T-1). 3.2.4.1.  An estimate of course resources will be developed for each new course and any course change to determine the resources required for supporting a new, or modified, course. (T-1). 3.2.4.2.  The estimate should include both the start-up and sustainment costs through the FYDP and at a minimum, should include the following: 3.2.4.2.1.  Manpower requirements (as applicable). 3.2.4.2.2.  Equipment requirements (as applicable). 3.2.4.2.3.  Facility requirements (as applicable). 3.2.4.2.4.  Start-up and sustainment funding. 3.2.4.2.5.  Any outside support required. 3.2.5.  Course Funding Flow. 3.2.5.1.  If the course, or course change, can be funded within the owning organization, that organization will develop the course and submit required course control documentation.  If not, forward the resource estimates to AETC/A3Q. (T-1). 3.2.5.2.  AETC/A3Q will validate the resources and determine if resources are available within AETC.  If resources are available, notify the owning organization to begin development. (T-2). 3.2.5.3.  If funding is not available AETC will work with the ERC, the executing agency and the requesting agency to determine a resourcing solution to forward to the ERSA for final decision. (T-1). Figure 3-1 Training Requirements Management Process    Note 1:  Requirements enter the ERT validation process either as a new requirement, or as a change or modification to an existing, approved training requirement.  Requestor must submit ER Training Request (see template) with endorsement of first O-6 or civilian equivalent in chain before submitting to AETC/A3Q (ERC). Note 2:  After initial review AETC works with the owning training agency to develop courses of action for training development and decides if additional resources are required through review of a Course Resource Estimate (CRE). –  If additional resources are required and the ERC approves the CRE, AETC will develop and implement the course. –  If the ERC disapproves additional resources for the course, HQ AETC (ERC Chair) notifies the requestor.  Attachment 1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS APPROVAL REQUEST FORM (Send completed templates to AF/A3XM) 1.  Training Requirement Analysis. a.  Source.  (Organization submitting approval request.) b.  Problem.  (What is driving this requirement to be added to AF institutional ERT?) 1)  Define the problem the training requirement will solve, to include the cause of the problem and the effect(s) of the problem. 2)  Identify CCDR or AF authority, doctrine or policy that mandates/recommends inclusion of this requirement into AF institutional ERT. c.  Training Requirements.  (Desired learning objectives (knowledge, skills or abilities) to be derived from revised/added training in task/condition/standard format (include level of expertise/proficiency required)). d.  Risk.  (If training is not conducted pre-deployment.) e.  Priority.  (In relation to existing requirements.) f.  Is this training provided/addressed anywhere else (e.g., BMT, Tech Training, Base-level, Regional Training Centers; ADR venues, etc.)? 1)  If yes, where? 2)  If no, will this new requirement build upon other existing training (be specific)?  2.  Training Requirement Specification. a.  Identify targeted audience (e.g., all Airmen, officer, enlisted, civilian or a subset of each category). b.  Identify targeted AFSC(s) for this training (if applicable). c.  Number of individuals to be trained. d.  Frequency of training. 1)  Tied to AEF battle rhythm/one-time/monthly/quarterly/semiannual/annual/other. 2)  Prior to deployment/during deployments. 3)  Will sustainment training be required during deployment? 4)  Will this be a long-term, enduring AF ERT requirement or a short-term, CCDR-specific requirement? e.  Identify the resources available to assist in developing proposed training to include funding source (e.g., equipment, facilities, manpower, SME support): 1)  What are initial and long-term funding requirements? 2)  Where will funding come from? 3.  Name and contact information (phone, e-mail and office symbol) for an AO that can be contacted for further information.   Endorsing 0-6/Civilian Equivalent (include rank, name and org) 