DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE WASHINGTON DC MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs FROM:  SAF/MR AFGM2017-36-04 4 October 2017 SUBJECT:  Air Force Guidance Memorandum (AFGM) Establishing Suitability/Fitness for Civilian Employees By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum is the first instance of a to-be published Manpower, Personnel and Services publication that immediately implements guidance on suitability and fitness for civilian employees from Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1400.25, Volume 731, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Suitability and Fitness Adjudication for Civilian Employees. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory in accordance with Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 731, Suitability, current edition. The provisions of this Guidance Memorandum apply to Air Force civilian employees, except for Air National Guard Technicians administered under Title 32 of the United States Code and non-U.S. citizen personnel employed at Air Force installations outside the United States. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for Suitability/Fitness for Civilian Employees. This Air Force publication may be supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM level supplements must be approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic Board prior to certification and approval. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360 Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  Operational questions may be directed to the AFPC/DP3FM, Civilian Force Management Branch (afpc.dp3fm.civforcemgtbranch@us.af.mil).  This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this Memorandum, or upon publishing of a new publication permanently establishing this guidance, whichever is earlier.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY Acting Assistant Secretary  (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) Attachment: Suitability/Fitness for Civilian Employees SUITABILITY/FITNESS FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES 1. Overview.1.1.  Executive order (E.O.) 13467 mandates that all applicants, appointees, and employees are suitable for employment or fit for assignment to work for or on behalf of the Federal government. It is important to ensure that these individuals are loyal, trustworthy, and of good character. Pursuant to the authority the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) delegated to heads of agencies in 5 CFR Part 731 and further delegated by the Department of Defense (DoD) to the DoD Components in DoDI 1400.25, Volume 731, individuals seeking consideration for employment, or continued employment, must undergo an investigation to establish their suitability and fitness for Federal employment. (T-0) 2. Purpose.2.1.  In accordance with the authority in DoDI 1400.25, Volume 731, this Guidance Memorandum establishes and implements policy, establishes uniform Air Force wide procedures, provides guidelines, delegates authority and assigns responsibilities regarding suitability and fitness for covered Air Force positions pursuant to the authority of Parts 302, 731, and 732 of 5 CFR.  3. Applicability.3.1. Air Force positions in the competitive service, positions in the excepted service where the incumbent can be noncompetitively converted to the competitive service, and career appointments to positions in the Senior Executive Service (SES). Also includes all other Air Force positions in the excepted service, contractor positions and non-career SES positions. 3.2. Air Force suitability and fitness adjudication requirements for positions of trust also apply to nonappropriated fund (NAF) positions, which are covered by DoDI 1400.25, Volume 1403, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System:  Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Employment. 4. Guidance.4.1.  In addition to the policy set forth by DoDI 1400.25, Volume 731, Enclosure 3, it is Air Force guidance that: 4.1.1. The procedures relating to suitability and fitness for employment, physical access to controlled facilities or information, and access to information systems will provide fair and impartial treatment of those upon whom the Air Force relies to conduct its business.  4.1.1.1. An interim favorable determination of a suitability and fitness review is the prerequisite for receiving an initial appointment and being granted physical access to Air Force controlled facilities or information and access to information systems.  4.1.2. In accordance with guidance in the DoDI 5200.46, DoD Investigative and Adjudicative Guidance for Issuing the Common Access Card (CAC), an interim CAC may be issued based on a favorable National Agency Check or a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) National Criminal History Check (fingerprint check) adjudicated by appropriate approved automated procedures or by a trained security or Civilian Personnel Section (CPS)/human resources (HR) specialist, AND successful submission to the investigative service provider (ISP) of an investigation equal to or greater in scope than a Tier 1.  Note:  Successful submission means the investigation has been released to the ISP AND the investigation has been scheduled. 4.1.3. The completion and favorable adjudication of the suitability and fitness investigation is the prerequisite for maintaining/continuing employment.  4.1.4. The completion and unfavorable adjudication of the suitability and fitness investigation may require necessary action to terminate employment.  5. Delegation.  5.1.  MAJCOMs/DRUs/FOAs/A1s are delegated the authority to further delegate or assign adjudicative suitability and fitness duties to the lowest practical level, in writing, to HR personnel at the base level, which includes delegating the authority to make an official determination based on the requirements of the position.  6. Responsibilities.  6.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR). Serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the Suitability and Fitness Program.  6.2. Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1). Develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural guidance for the management of the Suitability and Fitness Program.  6.3. Director, Civilian Force Management (AF/A1C). Directs development of the Suitability and Fitness Program policy to ensure compliance with this Guidance memorandum and consistency across the Air Force.  6.4. HQ Air Force Suitability Action Officer (AF/A1CM). Executes policy, provides guidance, and has overall responsibility for the Suitability and Fitness Program as outlined in the DoDI. Develops or revises directives, guidance, instructions and other program information based on laws, regulations and DoD instructions, as required.  6.5. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC/DP3FM). Provides general support to the MAJCOM, NGB, and AFR suitability/fitness adjudicators with questions regarding policy/procedures, suitability determinations, program objectives and responsibilities, and internal controls.  6.6. CPS/HR Office (HRO) (Civilian Personnel Officer/Human Resources Officer). 6.6.1. Ensures there is at least one trained suitability adjudicator to make interim and final suitability adjudicative determinations.   6.6.2. In accordance with AFI 34-144, Child and Youth Programs, and Child and Youth Programs Background Check Requirements Update memorandum dated 17 March 2017, initiates and tracks required reverifications on Child and Youth Programs personnel.  The reverification is required every 5 years 6.7. Suitability/Fitness Adjudicator. 6.7.1. Be familiar with the laws, regulations, standards and criteria governing suitability adjudication by completing mandatory and refresher suitability adjudication training.  6.7.2. Maintains a fair, impartial, and objective attitude toward the person and information being reviewed and adjudicated, without unlawful consideration of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity and sexual orientation), national origin, disability, age (40 or older) genetic information or prior Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) activity. In making decisions or recommendations, the adjudicator may not consider the subject’s political affiliation, race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, personal preferences or beliefs.  6.7.3. Obtains and maintains access to automated security/suitability systems to facilitate decisions on suitability/fitness determinations and CAC.  6.7.4. Initiates and tracks the suitability/fitness investigations to completion. This includes cases returned to the CPS/HRO by the DoD Consolidated Adjudications Facility (CAF) for a final adjudication determination. Reinvestigations of persons occupying public trust positions are required at least once every 5 years. (T-0) 7. Suitability and Fitness Investigative Requirements.  7.1.  Each covered position must be designated at a low (tier 1), moderate (tier 2), or high risk (tier 4) level. (T-0) Tier 2 and tier 4 investigations are considered public trust investigations. Public trust investigations are for positions that have the potential to adversely affect the integrity, efficiency, effectiveness, or delivery of public service. The position sensitivity for each of these levels is nonsensitive. Positions with this designation do not require access to classified information. 8. Pre-employment Waivers. 8.1. Noncritical Sensitive or Critical Sensitive Security Clearances. When the selectee does not possess the required noncritical sensitive or critical sensitive security clearance, the commander (or civilian equivalent or designee) with position sensitivity determination authority prepares a waiver of pre-employment investigation requirements when such action is necessary and in national interest. The pre-employment waiver allows the selectee to be given a firm start date without the required clearance for the position. See Attachment 1 for sample waiver memorandum. The memorandum is filed in the individual’s electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) in accordance with AFI 36-114, Guide to Personnel Recordkeeping. 8.2. Special Sensitive Security Clearances. The investigative requirement CANNOT be waived for special sensitive positions. The selectee must possess this clearance prior to starting in the position. In the event the selectee does not possess this clearance, the full investigation and favorable security adjudication must be completed and rendered prior to beginning in the position.    SAMPLE WAIVER OF PRE-APPOINTMENT INVESTIGATIVE REQUIREMENTS DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE  Attachment 1 AIR FORCE UNIT HEADING  MEMORANDUM FOR (Servicing Civilian Personnel Flight)  FROM: Unit of Assignment Full Address  SUBJECT: Waiver of Preappointment Investigative Requirements  In accordance with 5 CFR 732.202, I have waived the investigative requirements and give authority to fill a noncritical sensitive (or critical sensitive) position prior to completion of the personnel security investigation. (Name of individual, SSAN) has been selected for the position of (fill in), grade, and office symbol.  Appointment prior to completion of the investigation is necessary to accomplish (fill in) function in support of national security.  Temporary changes will be made in duties or work situation to preclude the person from access to classified material or information before completion of the required investigation.    Commander’s Signature Block 