BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 36-2235,VOLUME 12 SEPTEMBER 2002PersonnelINFORMATION FOR DESIGNERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL SYSTEMS -ISD EXECUTIVE SUMMARY FOR COMMANDERS AND MANAGERSRECORDS DISPOSITION:  Ensure that all records created  by  this  handbook  are  maintainedand disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule”NOTICE: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.  This  publication is  available  digitally  on the  AFDPO  www  site  at:OPR: HQ AETC/DOZ (Frank W. Schufletowski, Ph.D.)Supersedes AFH 36-2235, Volume 1, 1 November 1993 Pages: 23/Distribution: FCertified by: HQ USAF/DPDT(Col Patricia L. C. Priest)This  handbook  provides  commanders  and  managers  a  brief  overview  of  Instructional  SystemDevelopment (ISD) in the Air Force.  It acquaints them with the principles and concepts of ISD,and provides internal guidance on procedures and methods for applying ISD.  The handbook alsostresses the importance of continuous quality improvements in the ISD process.Section A Introduction ...........................................................................................................2Section B ISD – What It Is..................................................................................................... 4Figure 1 System Functions ..........................................................................................................5Figure 2 ISD Phases....................................................................................................................6Figure 3 Quality Improvement.....................................................................................................9Section C Distinctive Features of ISD................................................................................... 16Section D Responsibilities of Commanders and Managers..................................................... 18Section E Air Force Manuals and Handbooks ....................................................................... 19Section F Summary............................................................................................................... 22Attachment 1 – Glossary of  References and Supporting Information......................................... 232AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Section AIntroductionEducation andtraining areessentialEducation and training are essential for the effective operation of the AirForce, but can be expensive and can account for a large portion of theAir Force’s annual budget.  A major concern for every commander andmanager is whether personnel are adequately prepared to do the job.Instruction is notalways the answerThere is a tendency to assume that instruction is the solution for everyoperational problem.  This assumption results in wasted dollars when it’snot valid.  The tendency is for commanders and managers to requestmore instruction than needed, or to request instruction for a non-instructional-related problem.The challenge is to provide adequate instruction for your personnel whenthey need it.ISD is the answerSince 1965, the Air Force has used the Instructional SystemDevelopment (ISD) process to help commanders and managers resolvethe instructional dilemma.  ISD is a systematic, flexible, proven processfor determining whether instruction is necessary in a given situation, fordefining what instruction is needed, and for ensuring development ofeffective, cost-efficient instruction.  Quality Improvement (QI) isconstantly emphasized in the ISD Process.Air Force policyAFPD 36-22 directs that Air Force instruction be developed using theISD process.  Also, AFMAN 36-2234 provides information on ISDconcepts, principles, and procedures, with specific applications of theISD process spelled out in various volumes of AFH 36-2235 (seeAttachment A).AFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 20023Air Force trainingdoctrineAFMAN 1-1 states that people are the decisive factor in war.  It isimperative that people receive the right education and training at theright time.  Education and training should:-  Prepare forces for combat.-  Be as realistic as possible.-  Be conducted for all forms and levels of war.-  Give special attention to training for joint and combined employment.ISD can help ensure that you meet these objectives.This handbookThis executive summary is intended for you, the commander or manager.Its purpose is to acquaint you with the essence of the ISD process, toreveal how it can help you, and to explain what you can do to aid theprocess.  This summary will help you realize the importance of what youcan contribute to the successful application of the process.  Should youwant additional information about the process and how to apply it, checkthe documents listed in Attachment A.4AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Section BISD – What It IsIntroductionThe Air Force ISD process is a conceptual adaptation of the systemsengineering process to the problems of developing, implementing, andevaluating instruction.  ISD results in alternative solutions toinstructional problems which may be more or less cost-efficient,depending on the instructional need and environmental constraints.  ISDalso clarifies that a systems approach, which involves choosing amongalternative solutions, will produce the most effective results.Goal of ISDThe goal of ISD is to increase the effectiveness and cost-efficiency ofeducation and training, as follows:-  Develop instruction based on job performance requirements.-  Eliminate irrelevant skills and knowledge instruction from courses.-  Ensure that graduates acquire the necessary skills, knowledge, andattitudes to do the job.Product of the ISDprocessThe product of the ISD process is a total quality instructional system thatis cost-efficient and produces graduates who can do the job.The ISD modelThe Air Force ISD model is designed to represent simplicity andflexibility, so that instructional designers with varying levels of expertisecan understand the model and use it to develop effective, cost-efficientinstructional systems.  The model is composed of three distinct, yetinterrelated parts.  These parts are system functions, ISD phases, andquality improvement.  The three parts of the model are depicted inFigures 1 through 3.System functionsFigure 1 shows the basic top-level system functions of the ISD model,which are instructional system management, support, administration,delivery, and evaluation.  Evaluation is shown as the central feedback"network" for the total system.AFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 20025System functions(Continued)Figure 1. System Functions.System functionsdefinedThe system functions of the ISD model are defined as follows:Management is the function of directing or controlling instructionalsystem development and operations.Support is the function of maintaining all parts of the system.Administration is the function of day-to-day processing and recordkeeping.Delivery is the function of bringing instruction to students.Evaluation is the function of gathering feedback data through formative,summative, and operational evaluations to assess system and studentperformance.PlanningAlthough not a specific phase of the ISD process, planning is a keyevent.  Planning the ISD structure and functions includes determiningISD process management and evaluation strategies, and estimatingresource requirements and constraints.  Planning also includesdetermining the instructional needs and concepts, and it must take placebefore developing an instructional system or revising courses.  Planningcannot be overemphasized.6ISD phasesAFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Figure 2 graphically depicts the ISD phases embedded within the systemfunctions.   As shown, the phases used in the systems approach areanalysis, design, development, and implementation, with evaluationactivities integrated into each phase of the process.Figure 2.   ISD Phases.The instructional development process, which the model summarizes,requires instructional designers to:-  Analyze and determine what instruction is needed.-  Design instruction to meet the need.-  Develop instructional materials to support system requirements.Implement the instructional system.Evaluation is a central function that takes place in every phase.Symbolically, Figure 2 shows that each phase of the model depends onall of the other phases.  The phases are described next.AFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 20027Analysis phaseDesign phaseIn courses that tie the content directly to preparing a student to do a job,the instructional designer analyzes the job performance requirements anddevelops a task list.  Remember, job performance requirements may alsoinclude skills such as problem solving, leadership, and management.  Thedesigner then analyzes the job tasks and compares them with the skills,knowledge, and abilities of the incoming students.  The differencebetween what they already know and can do, and what the job requiresthem to know and be able to do, determines what instruction is needed.The activities of formative evaluation begin during the analysis phasewith process and product evaluations.In the design phase, the instructional designer develops a detailed plan ofinstruction which includes selecting the instructional methods and media,and determining the instructional strategies.  Existing instructionalmaterials are reviewed to determine their applicability to the specificinstruction under development.  In this phase, the instructional designersalso develop objectives and tests, as well as design the instruction.  Theimplementation plan for the instructional system is developed and atraining information management system is designed, if required.Formative evaluation activities continue in this phase with process andproduct evaluations.Development phase(Continued)In this phase, both the student and instructor lesson materials aredeveloped.  If the media selected in the design phase included items suchas videotapes, sound/slides, interactive courseware, and training devices,these are produced.  If a training information management system wasdeveloped, it is installed in this phase.  As a final step in this phase, theimplementation plan is updated.  Instructional designers also8AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Development phasevalidate each unit/module of instruction and its associated materials asthey are developed.  Validation includes:- Internal review of the instruction and materials for accuracy(formative evaluation).Individual and small-group tryouts (formative evaluation).- -  Operational (field) tryouts of the "whole" system (summativeevaluation).Revision of units/modules occurs as they are validated, based onfeedback from the formative and summative evaluation activities.  Thelast step in this phase is to finalize all instructional materials.ImplementationphaseAfter the instructional system has been designed and developed, and thevalidation activities of formative and summative evaluation have beencompleted, it is time to actually implement the "whole" system.  In thisphase, the instructional system is fielded under normal operatingconditions.  To ensure continuing quality of the fielded system,operational evaluations, including both internal and external evaluations,provide the necessary periodic feedback for the life cycle of the operatingsystem.EvaluationEvaluation is a continuous process beginning during the analysis phaseand continuing throughout the life cycle of the instructional system.There are three types of evaluation.-  Formative Evaluation includes process and product evaluationsconducted during the analysis and design phases.  It also includesvalidation, which is conducted during the development phase andincludes individual and small-group tryouts.-  Summative Evaluation includes operational tryouts and isconducted as the last step of validation in the development phase.-  Operational Evaluation includes periodic internal and externalevaluation of the operational system during the implementationphase.AFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 20029Total system modelFigure 3 completes the Air Force ISD model.  It depicts the systemfunctions and ISD phases embedded within the quality improvementprocess.Figure 3. Quality Improvement.System functionsAn extension of the systems approach places the ISD process within thefunctional design of a total instructional system.  The basic top-levelsystem functions are instructional system management, support,administration, delivery, and evaluation.  Evaluation and qualityimprovement are key parts of the system.  Evaluation is the centralfeedback network for the total system.QualityimprovementdefinedQuality Improvement (QI) is the continuous, organized creation ofbeneficial change to the instructional system.  The objective of QI is tofoster continuous improvements in both the ISD process and theproducts of the process.10AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002ISD and qualityrelationship(Continued)All of the principles of quality are implemented in the ISD process.  TheISD process helps ensure total quality in the education and trainingenvironment.  The relationship between the following key concepts of QIcan be easily seen in the process.  The relationships between QI and ISDare provided in the following paragraphs.Know your mission.  ISD depends on mission and job analysis for thenecessary data to design, develop, and implement instruction.  Allinstruction should be based directly on mission or job requirements.  Thequality checks in the analysis process help eliminate instruction that isunrelated to the job.Job analysis uses data from many sources, including mission statementsfound in regulations or locally developed statements.  Analysts orcurriculum developers also make use of management engineeringreports, occupational survey data, and direct observation to determinethe actual job requirements.As part of the job analysis process, a Training Needs Assessment (TNA)is conducted to determine what the actual performance problem(s) is(are).  In some cases, a problem isn’t due to a lack of instruction, but todeficiencies within the job structure or environment.  The ISD processhelps ensure that instruction is not developed for non-instructionalproblems.  Instruction may also be developed as a "preventive"measure—that is, to prevent problems and to meet the informational andeducational needs of Air Force personnel.CustomersKnow your customers.  The information gained in the mission/jobanalysis process gives the instructional design team information thatdefines the customer's expectations.The customer defines quality. ISD emphasizes criterion-basedinstruction. The criteria are directly linked to performance requirementsin the field. Field representatives identify education and trainingrequirements which instructional providers such as Air Education andTraining Command (AETC) or other trainingAFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200211ISD and qualityrelationship(Continued)organizations are then under "contract" to satisfy. All evaluations arefocused on the  graduate’s actual job performance.Set goals and standards.  The goals and standards for an instructionaldevelopment effort come in many variations.  First, the job requirementsand the impact of the performance deficiency determine the timingrequired for the development process and the conduct of theinstructional program.  Second, the content of the instruction isdetermined by the person’s need to do the job. The design team mustdirectly translate the cues, conditions, and performance standards of thejob directly into the instructional program.Focus on customers.  As mentioned earlier, the gaining unit or workcenter needs determine instructional requirements.  By continuing totrace the relationship between the job requirements and the person’s needto do the job, a continual focus on the actual field requirement ismaintained.  In addition, the ISD process requires that the capabilities,aptitudes, and attitudes of the target audience be considered.Manage by fact.  Each phase of the ISD process requires constantevaluation against the job requirements identified earlier in the process.In addition, a myriad of tools have been developed to ensure that designand development decisions are made with supporting data.  For example,a number of media selection tools are being used which providemanagers information that matches training media with the instructionalrequirements.  These matches are based on learning theories anddevelopment cost factors (money and time).  ISD is designed to guidethe design team to awareness of factors affecting their decisions.Team PlayersFoster teamwork.  An instructional program can’t be designed anddeveloped in a vacuum.  In order to develop effective instruction, thedesign team must be in constant touch with the work center andevaluation offices.  This ensures that the instruction matches theperformance requirements of the job.12AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002ISD and qualityrelationshipEmpower your people.  ISD is a problem solving, decision makingmodel.  Since ISD is flexible and since there are any number of ways tosolve a given instructional problem, a design team can be allowedfreedom and given authority to design, develop, and implementinstruction that meets job performance requirements.Final ProductIntegrate quality in all phases.  Evaluation is continuous qualitychecking. This is true during each phase of the ISD process, fromanalysis to evaluation.  Built-in checks in each phase ensure the quality ofthe ISD process and instructional products with emphasis on thegraduate’s performance.Evaluate quality constantly.  The ISD process is a cyclical, ongoingprocess of continuous improvement.  As curriculum developers progressthrough the different phases of ISD, the process and products of eachphase are constantly evaluated against the instructional requirements andprinciples of learning.  The results of the evaluations determine whichphase of ISD to enter next.  Constant evaluation identifies changes ininstructional requirements due to updates in equipment and personnel,which results in new ISD efforts to provide the best possible instructionto Air Force personnel.Basis of processimprovement(Continued)The basis of process improvement is Quality Air Force (QAF).  QAF is amanagement philosophy and a methodology that work together toproduce continuous process improvements.  It is based on the followingten principles.-  All work is a process.-  Processes receive work from suppliers, add value, and deliver outputto customers.AFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200213Basis of processimprovement-  Anyone from whom a process receives work is a supplier.-  Anyone to whom a process delivers output is a customer.-  Customers have needs and expectations.-  Customers will define and measure quality in terms of those needsand expectations.Improving process quality increases productivity.-  Quality is meeting customer needs and expectations.- -  Processes can be identified, understood, measured, and improved.-  The people who operate the processes know best how to improvethem.Procedure forprocessimprovementIn order to ensure process improvements, you will need to use asystematic method to identify and correct the causes of the problems.The six steps of process improvement are outlined in the following table.StepActivity123456Define the process and determine the main problem areas.Analyze the problems and identify the causes of each.Identify and evaluate possible changes to the process.Implement the changes and monitor the process.Institutionalize the changes.Repeat for continuous improvements.Ways to implementthe procedureThere are many different ways to implement the basic procedurementioned above.  Two of the ways are:"Chart it, check it, change it"- -  Shewhart Cycle (plan-do-check-act)Each of these techniques uses the six basic steps mentioned above.14AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Chart It, Check It, Change ItWhat it is"Chart it, check it, change it" is a simple phrase that summarizes one ofthe ways to implement the procedure.  It is a systematic approach tocontinuous improvement.  This approach has three principal steps, asshown below and in Figure 4.How to use it(Continued)Step1.  Chart it2.  Check it3.  Change itWhat You Do-  Describe the process.-  Gather data.-  Analyze the data.-  Evaluate the process.- Identify opportunities.- Improve the process.- Institutionalize the change.Chart It-  Using a process flowchart,describe the process to beimproved.-  Gather data on the process andits products.Check It-  Analyze the data to isolate theproblems and opportunities.-  Evaluate the process to identify- alternative approaches.Identify opportunities (i.e.,useful changes) from thealternatives.Change It- Improve the process byimplementing changes identifiedas opportunities.Figure 4.  Chart it, Check it,Change it.CHART  ITCHECK  ITCHANGE  ITAFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200215How to use itChange It- Institutionalizing the changes through training, standardization, andother means.  Then, use another process (or use this same one again)to make further improvements.Shewhart CycleWhat it isThe Shewhart Cycle is a systematic approach to achieving a continuousimprovement in quality.  The cycle includes planning, doing, checking,and acting.  Because the approach involves repetition, it is representedgraphically as a circle in Figure 5.How to use itSteps in the Shewhart cycle are:Figure 5.  Shewhart Cycle.-  Plan an approach forquality improvement.  Studythe process flow and anyexisting data.  Formulatepossible improvements,experiments to be run, oradditional data to be gathered.-  Do the activity planned.Implement the plannedimprovement effort.  Train theindividuals who areresponsible forimplementation.ACTON THERESULTSPLANANAPPROACHCHECKTHERESULTSDOTHEACTIVITY-  Check the results.  Measure the results of the improvementeffort you implemented.  Analyze the data you collected.-  Act on the results.  If the effort was truly an improvement,standardize and document it.  If it was not successful, determinewhat could be done to improve it.-  Repeat.  Continue around the cycle again by planning andcarrying out further activities.16AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002IntroductionWhat is required?(Continued)Section CDistinctive Features of ISDActual instructional design offers great potential for creativity and costavoidance through application of state-of-the-art instructional technologyand advances in management, communication, and behavioral sciences.Still, there are real-world constraints; therefore, compromises and trade-offs may be necessary.  These are management decisions.The instructional designer who applies the ISD process is better able topresent what the trade-offs involve, so that commanders and managerscan make timely, effective, and cost-efficient management decisions.A commander or manager who understands the process and renderssound, timely decisions on these matters is an invaluable asset toinstructional development programs.From the description of the ISD process in Section B, it is apparent thatdeveloping an instructional system involves considerable effort.  Youmay ask, "Is it necessary to invest all of this effort in every course?"Obviously, practical considerations such as time and resources availableto develop the system and the number of students to be trained, dictatethat the procedures and techniques described in AFMAN 36-2234 beselectively applied.  Although the ISD process is flexible, there are limitson how much of the process can be bypassed and still produce aneffective, cost-efficient instructional system.-  The minimum requirements in the development process that shouldbe accomplished are listed below.-  As best you can, determine the essential job tasks.-  Determine the skills and knowledge required to perform these tasks.-  Determine if personnel with the necessary skills and knowledgealready exist.  If they do not, proceed with the balance of this list.-  Derive objectives that, if met, would ensure these skills andknowledge.AFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200217What is required?-  Develop test items for these objectives that can be used to determinewhether or not the objectives are achieved.-  Devise the means for the student to achieve these objectives.-  To the extent that you can, determine whether or not the student hasachieved these objectives.-  Where the objectives were not achieved, revise the system asnecessary.Key conceptsThere are several key concepts that make the ISD process distinctive.-  The instruction to be provided is determined by job requirements.- Instruction requirements are based on a behavioral analysis thatresults in measurable, observable objectives.Instruction is provided only on that portion of the job requirementsthat the student has not already mastered.- -  Measurement is keyed to the objectives, and students are measuredagainst criteria rather than in comparison to a norm.-  The instruction is student-oriented.  Objectives are stated in terms ofstudent performance.  Instruction is also described in terms ofstudent activity.-  The student and the instructor both know the instructional goals and- when they have been attained.If the system doesn’t teach, it may be the fault of the system design(rather than the student) and the system must be reworked until it iseffective.Potential benefits(Continued)Based on many years of successful demonstrations, there is empiricalevidence that competent use of the ISD process can improve instructionin distinct ways.Effectiveness.  Through use of design and development procedures,careful selection of what requires instruction, measurement andevaluation of instruction, and revision of the instructional system until itmeets its objectives, the effectiveness of the instruction will be greatlyincreased.18AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Potential benefitsCost-efficiency.  The ISD process indicates that effective instruction canbe developed in a highly cost-efficient manner.  Also, added visibility ofthe education and training process provided by ISD aids in thejustification and equitable distribution of resources.  While it is notreasonable to believe that use of the ISD process will always result indollars saved, it is evident that ISD will provide a more cost-efficientmeans of developing instruction.Responsibilities of Commanders and ManagersSection DIntroductionThe Air Force expects you, as a commander or manager, to support theapplication of the ISD process.  It is your responsibility to ensure that theprocess is used to develop an effective and cost-efficient instructionalsystem while continually improving the quality of the process.What you shoulddoWhat you shouldn’tdo(Continued)As a commander or manager, you should:-  Rely on an ISD process to develop instructional systems.-  Ensure that sufficient numbers of competent individuals are assignedas instructional designers and managers.-  Provide adequate training for your untrained instructional designersand managers.-  Coordinate your instructional system requirements through the unitISD managers and base support organizations.-  Provide resources (people, funds, equipment, time, etc.) to supportthe process.-  Conduct periodic quality checks and eliminate instruction unrelatedto the job.As a commander or manager, you should not:-  Require a course to be developed before you have determined thatthere is a valid education or training problem, that a course is aneffective, cost-efficient solution, or that an existing course could fixthe problem.  For example, don’t say:  "We need a one-week coursein shop safety because the accident rate in our machine shop has beenincreasing for the past six months."  Instead, say: "The accident ratein the machine shop has been increasing for the past six months.Conduct an analysis to determine what must be done to correct thesituation."  If education or training is part of the solution, develop theAFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200219necessary instruction.-  Set unreasonable suspense dates for development of the instructionalsystem.  Development of instructional systems can be a relativelyslow process; however, normally there areWhat you shouldn’tdooptions in the development process that will make a substantialdifference in the development time.  Imposing an unrealistic suspensedate may force the instructional designers to bypass essential parts ofthe process that can cause the system to be ineffective and inefficient.-  Delay planning for the instructional system if you are managing theacquisition of a defense or support system.  The initial planning forthe system should actually start before entering the analysis phase ofthe ISD process.Section EAir Force Manuals and HandbooksAir Force Manual,AF MAN 36-2234,InstructionalSystemDevelopmentThis manual describes the principles and processes of InstructionalSystem Development (ISD) for developing education and trainingprograms in the United States Air Force.  This manual applies topersonnel who plan, design, develop, implement, approve, administer,conduct, evaluate or manage instruction for  the Air Force.This handbook provides information and guidance for applyinginstructional technology and ISD process described in AFMAN 36-2234.This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance toensure that the ISD process is properly applied during defenseacquisition.Air ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 2, ISDAutomated Tools /What WorksAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 3,Application toAcquisition20AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002This handbook provides an overview of the communications andcomputer technologies for education and training.This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance fordesigners of instructional systems on how and when to incorporatetraining technologies into ISD.This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance forconducting a Training Needs Assessment.This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance toensure that the ISD process is properly applied during design ofinstruction for device-based aircrew training.This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,design, develop, approve, administer, or manage aircrew training in theAir Force.Air ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 4,Manager’s Guide toNew Education andTrainingTechnologiesAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 5,InstructionalTechnology andDistance LearningAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 6, Guide toNeeds AssessmentAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 7, DesignGuide for Device-based AircrewTrainingAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 8,Application toAircrew TrainingAFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200221Air ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 9,Application toTechnical TrainingAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 10,Application toEducationAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 11,Application to UnitTrainingAir ForceHandbook,AFH 36-2235,Volume 12, Testand MeasurementThis handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,design, develop, approve, administer, or manage technical training in theAir Force.This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,design, develop, approve, administer, or manage education in the AirForce.This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,design, develop, approve, administer, or manage unit training in the AirForce.This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plandevelop Criterion-Referenced test and measurement instruments, whovalidate instructional resources and operationally evaluate instructionalsystems22AFH 36-2235 Volume  1   2 SEPTEMBER 2002Section FSummaryISD checklistIn summary, an ISD checklist for commanders and managers will helpyou manage the ISD process within your organization.  A samplechecklist is provided below.ISD Checklist for Commanders and Managers-  Do I understand the ISD process?-  Do I recognize why it takes the requisite detail to design an effective,cost- efficient instructional system?-  Do I provide leadership, management, and resource support?-  Do I define the limiting constraints such as time, manpower, orequipment?-  Do I ensure that the ISD process results in continual quality processimprovements?-  Do I encourage instructional designers to be creative and imaginativewhen designing instructional systems?-  Has an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) been identified formanaging and coordinating the instructional development process?-  Have I required only essential documentation of the ISD process?RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt General, USAFDCS/PersonnelAFH 36-2235Volume 12 SEPTEMBER 200223Attachment 1GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATIONAFPD 36-22AFI 36-2201AFI 36-2301Military TrainingDeveloping, Managing and Conducting Military TrainingProfessional Military EducationAFMAN 36-2234Instructional System DevelopmentAFMAN 36-2236Handbook for Air Force InstructorsAFH 36-2235Information for Designers of Instructional Systems (12 Volumes)Vol 1ISD Executive Summary for Commanders and ManagersVol 2 ISD Automated Tools/What WorksVol 3Application to AcquisitionVol 4  Manager’s Guide to New Education and Training TechnologiesVol 5Vol 6Vol 7Vol 8Vol 9Vol 10Vol 11Vol 12Advanced Distributed Learning:  Instructional Technology andDistance LearningGuide to Needs AssessmentDesign Guide for Device-based Aircrew TrainingApplication to Aircrew TrainingApplication to Technical TrainingApplication to EducationApplication to Unit TrainingTest and Measurement Handbook