BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-1005 23 JUNE 2016 Operations Support MODELING & SIMULATION MANAGEMENT     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  AF/A3OT   Certified by: AF/A3O  (Maj Gen Scott D. West) Pages: 14  This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  16-10,  Modeling  and Simulation.    This  instruction  outlines  AF  M&S  general  policy,  assigns  key  roles  and responsibilities,  and  describes  AF  participation  in  select  M&S  forums.    It  applies  to  all  AF activities using M&S. This instruction applies to the Air National Guard (for the purposes of AFI 16-1005  Tier  Authorities,  NGB  is  considered  a  MAJCOM)  and  the  Air  Force  Reserve.    It establishes  forums  for  collaboration  and  funding  advocacy  for  programs  that  will  enhance  AF operational  readiness.  It  identifies  enterprise  architecture,  data  exposure,  and  metadata management  functions  and  responsibilities.    To  recommend  changes  or  identify  conflicts between  this  and  other  departmental  publications,  use  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for Change  of  Publication,  and  route  it  through  publishing  channels  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  for  this  directive,  AF/A3OT  Workflow  (usaf.pentagon.af-a3.mbx.a3ot-workflow@mail.mil)  or  1480  Air  Force  Pentagon,  Washington,  DC  20330-1480.    This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR  of  this  publication  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.    Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.    In  accordance  with  the  acquisition  chain  of  authority  specified  in  AFI  63-2 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, mandates to the acquisition execution chain are not considered Wing level mandates and tiering per AFI 33-360 does not apply.  See Attachment 1  for  a  glossary  of  references  and  supporting  information.    Note  that  to  avoid  confusion,  the acronym  “LVC-OT”  will  be  used  to  refer  to  Operational  Training  and  “OT”  by  itself  refers  to Operational Testing.  Section A—General 1.  Scope.  This  directive  applies  to  all  Modeling  &  Simulation  (M&S)  assets  within  AF purview,  excluding  Special  Access  Programs  (SAP)/Special  Access  Requirements  (SAR).  Nothing  in  this  directive  shall  alter  or  supersede  the  existing  authorities  and  policies  of  the Director  of  National  Intelligence  regarding  the  protection  of  Sensitive  Compartmented Information  (SCI)  and  SAP  for  intelligence.    This  instruction  recognizes  that  special  measures may  be  required  for  protection  and  handling  of  foreign  intelligence  or  counterintelligence information, or other need-to-know information.  Accordingly, implementation of this instruction must  be  tailored  to  comply  with  coordinated  Intelligence  Community  Directives,  Policies,  and Guidance from  the Office of the Director of National  Intelligence (ODNI).  The application of the provisions and procedures of this directive to SCI or other SAP M&S is encouraged where they may complement or address areas not otherwise specifically addressed. 2.  Background. 2.1.  AF  M&S  is  a  key  enabler  supporting  test  and  evaluation  throughout  the  acquisition process;  accelerating  and  enhancing  existing  Air  Force  warfighting  capabilities,  and generating  decision  quality  information.    The  purpose  of  this  instruction  is  to  implement DoDD  5000.59,  DoD  Modeling  and  Simulation  (M&S)  Management,  through  an  AF  M&S governance  structure  and  DoDI  5000.70,  Management  of  DoD  Modeling  and  Simulation (M&S) Activities.  M&S management shall develop plans, programs, procedures, issuances, and pursue common and cross-cutting M&S tools, data, and services to achieve DoD’s goals by:  promoting  visibility  and  accessibility  of  models  and  simulations;  leading,  guiding,  and shepherding investments in M&S; assisting collaborative research, development, acquisition, and  operation  of  models  and  simulations;  maximizing  commonality,  reuse,  interoperability, sustainment,  efficiencies  and  effectiveness  of  M&S,  and  supporting  DoD  communities  that are enabled by M&S. 2.2.  AF M&S is aligned under three pillars: (1) Live, Virtual, and Constructive Operational Training  (LVC-OT)  led  by  AF/A3,  (2)  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management  (ILCM)  led  by SAF/AQ, and (3) Decision Support led by AF/A9. 3.  Guidance. 3.1.  The AF shall advise the appropriate Secretary of Defense on key AF M&S capabilities. 3.2.  The  AF  shall  pursue  the  efficient  and  effective  development,  use,  and  reuse  of  M&S capabilities and resources. 3.3.  The  AF  shall  apply  M&S  capabilities  needed  to  support  the  effective  and  efficient accomplishment  of  mission  objectives,  requirements  development,  acquisition,  test  and evaluation, and training. AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 3 3.4.  The  AF  shall  make  M&S  assets  visible  and  accessible  within  and  across  the  DoD components. 3.5.  The  AF  shall  reference  the  DoD  M&S  discovery  metadata  search  capability  when assessing existing M&S assets for reuse. 4.  HQ USAF Responsibilities. 4.1.  All  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SAF)  Assistant  Secretaries  (AS)  or  Deputy  Assistant Secretaries (DAS) and Air Force (AF) Deputy Chiefs of Staff (DCS) or Assistant Chiefs of Staff (ACS) will: 4.1.1.  Identify  and  develop  functional  M&S  requirements  and  capabilities  within  their functional areas. 4.1.2.  Maximize reuse of M&S models and data. 4.1.3.  Advocate  for  respective  functional  M&S  workforce  education  and  training requirements. 4.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3), will: 4.2.1.  Serve  as  the  approval  authority  for  overall  AF  M&S  policy  including  integrated operational training and training devices. 4.2.2.  Serve as lead for AF M&S LVC-OT. 4.2.3.  Lead AF M&S policy, guidance, and process decisions to maximize the impact of M&S capabilities on operational readiness. 4.2.4.  Appoint the Secretariat for the AF M&S Steering Committee (SC). 4.2.5.  Serve as co-chair with AF/A9 and SAF/AQ in the M&S Governance Structure. 4.2.6.  In  coordination  with  AF/A9  and  SAF/AQ,  act  as  AF  advocate  for  M&S  and performs  M&S  enterprise-level  functions  that  facilitate  coordination  among  M&S activities  AF-wide  and  with  industry,  Service  Components,  interagency,  academia,  and international partners. 4.2.7.  Manage  enterprise-level  standards and standardization activities.   In coordination with  AF/A9  and  SAF/AQ,  coordinate  M&S  standards  activities  with  national  and international M&S standards development and standards setting organizations. 4.2.8.  In  coordination  with  AF/A9  and  SAF/AQ,  advocate  for  M&S  programs  and initiatives  through  the  Air  Force  Corporate  Structure  (AFCS)  and  maintain  insight  into M&S investments AF-wide. 4.2.9.  Designate  AF/A3O  as  waiver  authority  for  items  under  AF/A3  responsibility  in this AFI. 4.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) will: 4.3.1.  Issue  plans,  directives,  procedures,  and  publications  for  the  management  and approval  of  intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance  (ISR)  M&S  in  coordination with AF, DoD, and Defense Intelligence Enterprise (DIE) components. 4 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 4.3.2.  Encourage  the  use  of  M&S  within  the  Air  Force  ISR  community,  enhance  ISR support to Air Force M&S activities, and act to integrate ISR mission data requirements into the M&S process for threat, Blue ISR capability, and geospatial data. 4.3.3.  Represent  AF  ISR  interests  on  all  applicable  M&S  issues  and  provide  ISR representation at the DoD level as requested by the Secretary of the Air Force. 4.3.4.  Ensure  ISR  M&S  activities  comply  with  Intelligence  Community  or  DoD  level standards, interface, portability, and architecture policies. 4.4.  Director, Studies, Analyses, and Assessments (AF/A9), will: 4.4.1.  In  coordination  with  AF/A3,  SAF/AQ,  and  other  appropriate  AF  organizations, advise  OUSD  (AT&L)  and  the  Defense  Modeling  and  Simulation  Coordination  Office (DMSCO) on key AF M&S capabilities and uses. 4.4.2.  Serve as or designate the AF representative to the DoD M&S SC. 4.4.3.  Serve as co-chair with AF/A3 and SAF/AQ in the M&S Governance Structure. 4.4.4.  Serve  as  the  AF  lead  for  M&S  supporting  Decision  Support  activities.    Review, align,  and  institutionalize  AF  Decision  Support  enterprise  policy  and  procedures  to facilitate  the  development  of  architectures,  requirements,  and  investment  strategies  for Decision Support M&S. 4.4.5.  Recommend policies, plans, and programs to the AF M&S Governance bodies that support the AF M&S Strategic Vision and priorities. 4.4.6.  Act  as  AF  advocate  for  M&S  Decision  Support  matters  and  perform  M&S enterprise-level  functions  that  facilitate  coordination  among  M&S  activities  AF-wide, with industry, Service Components, academia, and international partners. 4.5.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will: 4.5.1.  Lead  AF  acquisition  and  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management  M&S  policy, guidance  and  process  decisions  to  ensure  efficient,  effective  use  of  M&S  capability  in programs and have optimal impact on capability development. 4.5.2.  Serve as co-chair with AF/A3 and AF/A9 in the M&S Governance Structure. 4.5.3.  Encourage  applicable frameworks,  models, simulations, applications, data, and processes within programs and across the acquisition enterprise. reusability  of  architectures, 4.5.4.  In  coordination  with  DoD,  Service  Components,  industry  and  academia,  develop and advocate for acquisition architectures and frameworks. 4.5.5.  Delegate to SAF/AQR the co-chair of the AF M&S SC. 4.5.6.  Represent  the  AF  and  advocates  AF  service  positions  on  DoD  M&S  acquisition committees, groups, and forums. 4.6.  Chief,  Information  Dominance  and  Chief  Information  Officer  (SAF/CIO  A6),  will consider AF M&S capability requirements when defining and maintaining the AF Enterprise Architecture. 4.7.  Director, Air Force Test and Evaluation Directorate (AF/TE) will: AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 5 4.7.1.  Advise  Air  Force  senior  leadership  on  the  use  of  M&S  in  test  and  evaluation (T&E). 4.7.2.  Develop T&E policy and establish guidance on the use of M&S in T&E. 4.7.3.  Manage Air Force test infrastructure and determine adequacy of T&E resources to support system lifecycle activities, of which M&S is a foundational element. 4.7.4.  Be consulted with when test M&S policy issues are an agenda item for SAF/AQ or A9 in internal or external M&S forums. 4.8.  Air  Force  Surgeon  General  (AF/SG)  will  develop  policy  and  oversee  modeling  and simulation  used  to  assist  training  for  medical  and  surgical  providers,  nurses,  and  Allied Health professionals. 5.  Commanders/Directors at all levels.  The Commander/Director will: 5.1.  For  key  M&S  assets  currently  being  developed,  managed,  or  maintained  within  their respective  organizations,  ensure  the  organization  or  acquisition  agency  uploads  M&S discovery  metadata  to  a  system  capable  of  providing  data  to  the  OSD  repository  in  the required  format  and  includes  all  required  information  per  DoDI  5000.70.    (T-0)    See paragraph 8.2.3 and 8.2.6 in this instruction for additional guidance. 5.2.  AF  organizations  designated  as  an  M&S  Executive  Agent  (MSEA)  will  have  both  AF and DoD responsibility for the respective DoD application. 5.3.  Ensure M&S systems include the requirement to obtain certified data and models from the  authoritative  source  when  available  and  feasible.    (T-1)  Coordinate  with  authoritative source  providers  to  plan  necessary  resources  to  satisfy  requirements  with  consideration  to program  cost,  schedule,  and  performance  objectives.  (T-1)  Reference  AFI  16-1001, Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A), regarding VV&A requirements. 5.4.  Ensure  their  systems  comply  with  appropriate  cybersecurity  Authorizing  Official approval  guidance  for  given  configurations  and  within  the  timeframe  specified  for  the approval. 5.5.  Headquarters  Air  Education  and  Training  Command's  Surgeon  General  is  designated the  lead  for  the  Distributed  Human  Patient  Simulation  Training  Program  for  Air  Force Medical M&S. 6.  Governance. 6.1.  The  AF  M&S  governance  structure  defines  a  strong  partnership  responsible  for developing  AF  M&S  priorities;  balancing,  assessing  and  measuring  the  effectiveness  of capability-based  programming;  and  advising  AF  senior  leaders  on  programming  M&S capabilities.  The  AF  M&S  Governance  Structure  integrates  into  other  AF-level  governing bodies and councils to  ensure AF M&S equities are adequately represented, as appropriate.  Any  organization  with  AF  M&S  interests  may  participate  in  the  AF  M&S  Governance structure.  Senior  leader  oversight  and  strategic-level  guidance  for  overall  M&S  program governance structure are provided, as applicable depending on the specific issue (operational, technical, programmatic, or acquisition), by the Executive Steering Group, AF M&S Steering Committee, and two M&S Council of Colonel (O-6/GS-15) supporting bodies (Figure 1). 6 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 Figure 1.  Air Force M&S Governance Structure.  6.2.  Air  Force  Modeling  and  Simulation  Executive  Steering  Group  (ESG).  The  M&S  ESG may  be  convened  on  an  as-needed  basis.    The  M&S  ESG  serves  as  the  authoritative governance body for all AF M&S activities and operates in conjunction with the AFCS.  The M&S ESG meets as required and is governed by a tri-chair management structure, with co-chairs  consisting  of  AF/A3,  AF/  A9  and  SAF/AQ.    Members  of  the  M&S  ESG  include MAJCOM/CVs,  functional  HAF  2-letters  (e.g.,  TE,  FM,  A1,  A2,  A4,  etc.)  and  others identified dependent on the issues/agenda.  The key functions of the M&S ESG are to make decisions  and  resolve including  non-material  AF  M&S  solutions,  funding recommendations and positions, elevated by subordinate groups in the AF M&S governance structure, and provide the functional  communities priorities and vision for the development and sustainment of M&S capabilities. issues, 6.3.  Air Force M&S SC.  The purpose of the AF M&S SC is  to  facilitate communications between  AF/A3,  AF/A9  and  SAF/AQ  and  the  M&S  Stakeholders  represented  by  the functional  HAF  2-letters  at  the  1-2  star  level.    The  overall  objective  is  to  encourage communications flow between the three designated AF M&S pillars (LVC-OT,  ILCM,  and Decision Support) and to ensure significant M&S issues are brought forward to the ESG for resolution.  The AF M&S SC is governed by a tri-chair management structure, with co-chairs consisting of AF/A3, AF/ A9 and SAF/AQ that meet on an as-required basis.  The M&S SC Secretariat is appointed by AF/A3.  The key functions of the M&S SC are: AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 7 6.3.1.  Approve  management  processes  that  provide  visibility  and  access  into  AF  M&S programs and activities. 6.3.2.  Promote  the  adoption  and  facilitate  the  coordination  of  policies,  and  provide guidance  that  (1)  encourages  the  commonality,  reuse,  interoperability,  efficiencies,  and effectiveness  of AF M&S data, tools, and services;  and (2) facilitates the application of M&S across the AF M&S communities. 6.3.3.  Approve  coordination  efforts  external  to  the  AF  when  accomplishing  M&S coordination agent responsibilities. 6.3.4.  Approve  policy  and  provide  guidance  that  facilitates  application  of  M&S  across the AF M&S communities. 6.3.5.  Recommend  AF  M&S  goals,  objectives,  and  a  strategy  including  investment recommendations and plan to achieve them. 6.3.6.  Promote  the  use  of  best  practices  and  technologies  from  the  other  Services, Departments, Agencies and Industry. 6.3.7.  Approve  the  plans  for  developing  the  AF  M&S  workforce  (developers  and managers)  and  promoting  M&S  education  and  training  for  the  workforce  in  the  using communities. 6.4.  AF  M&S  Council  of  Colonels  (O-6/GS-15)  bodies.    The  Council  of  Colonels  (CoC) governing bodies are the next level of governance, directly below the AF M&S  SC.  There are  two  AF  M&S  CoC  governing  bodies,  depending  upon  the  nature  of  the  M&S  topic  or area  of  concern.  These  organizations  support  both  the  AF  M&S  SC  and  AF  M&S  ESG activities.  Both  bodies  will  vet  issues  requiring  senior  leader  visibility  and  decisions,  and make recommendations and develop proposed courses of action for approval and resolution at the higher level of M&S governance. 6.4.1.  The  LVC-OT  CoC  roles,  responsibilities,  and  membership  are  addressed  in  AFI 16-1004, LVC-OT Management. 6.4.2.  Acquisition and Decision Support (A&DS) M&S CoC. This CoC orchestrates AF-wide  A&DS  M&S  strategy  and  requirements.    This  CoC  is  co-chaired  by  AF/A9  and SAF/AQR and has representation from key stakeholders and appropriate analytic support organizations.  Key functions of this body include: 6.4.2.1.  Develop  management  processes  that  provide  visibility  and  access  into  AF A&DS M&S programs and activities. 6.4.2.2.  Develop  policy  and the commonality,  reuse,  interoperability,  efficiencies,  and  effectiveness  of  AF  A&DS M&S data, tools, and services. recommended  guidance that  encourages 6.4.2.3.  Develop coordination efforts external to the AF when accomplishing A&DS M&S coordination agent responsibilities. 6.4.2.4.  Develop  policy  and  provide  guidance  that  facilitates  application  of  A&DS M&S across the AF M&S communities (acquisition, analysis, planning, testing, and experimentation). 8 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 6.4.2.5.  Develop  and  recommend  best  practices  and  technologies  from  the  other services, departments, government agencies, and industry. 6.4.2.6.  Develop the plan for AF A&DS M&S workforce (developers and managers) development,  and  promote  M&S  education  and  training  for  that  workforce  in  the using communities. 6.4.2.7.  Recommend  AF  A&DS  M&S  goals,  objectives,  and  a  strategy  including investment recommendations and plans to achieve them. 7.  M&S Standards and Architecture. 7.1.  Architectures  and  technical  standards  are  key  enabling  elements  to  meet  the  M&S objective the best use of technology to provide the highest quality test, evaluation, analysis, and training. 7.1.1.  Standard Architectures.  Open, net-centric, interoperable standards shall be used to achieve  an  integrated  operational  architecture  that  is  a  scalable  and  interoperable  M&S system of systems that allows for efficient interoperability within the AF and with other DoD components. 7.1.2.  Use of Specifications and Standards.  Specifications and standards shall be used as feasible in  solicitations and contracts  to  define  essential  standard practices (e.g., system safety and parts management) and technical  requirements (e.g., materiel  interoperability and support requirements) and to manage risk. 7.2.  Requiring agencies, in coordination with program offices, will: 7.2.1.  Ensure  that  ODNI,  OSD,  Joint,  or  AF-approved  data  standards  are  adopted  as feasible in newly developed and redesigned AF M&S applications and, when feasible, in existing systems (T-0).  Open or industry standards will be used where no ODNI, OSD, Joint, or AF standard has been identified.  (T-0) This requirement does not apply to the internal  storage,  processing,  or  distribution  of  data  within  a  system,  or  to  standalone systems that will not exchange data with any other system. 7.2.2.  Consider new technologies or standardized advanced computing  environments  to maximize  scalability,  accessibility,  and  efficiency  while  also  reducing  IT  and infrastructure costs at forward sites and the level of effort for cybersecurity compliance. (T-0) 7.3.  Throughout a program’s lifecycle, program managers shall obtain data and models from authoritative  sources  when  available  and  feasible,  and  coordinate  with  authoritative  source providers to plan necessary resources to satisfy requirements with consideration to program cost,  schedule,  and  performance  objectives.    (T-2)  Program  managers  for  legacy  programs must consider using authoritative data and models and determine if integration is fiscally and technically feasible. 7.4.  AF  organizations  identified  as  M&S  authoritative  data  sources  will  comply  with  AFI 33-115 and AFI 33-401 guidance for their authoritative data, and register it in the appropriate registry  upon  approval  of  the  appropriate  governance  body.  (T-1)    AF  organizations providing  authoritative  models  will  also  comply  with  AFI  16-1001  for  the  verification, validation, and accreditation of those models. (T-1) AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 9 8.  M&S Data Discovery and Management. 8.1.  Effective  data  management  is  critical  to  providing  flexible  and  responsive  M&S capabilities.  AF M&S discovery metadata will comply with AFI 33-115 guidance and will also  be  discoverable,  searchable,  and  retrievable  using  the  DoD  M&S  discovery  metadata search capability except where security classification precludes exposure. (T-1) 8.1.1.  M&S  data  discovery  and  exposure  will  adopt  operational  system  data  discovery and  exposure  interfaces  and  standards  to  minimize  unique  system  interfaces  for  M&S applications. (T-1) 8.1.2.  In cases where AF M&S data discovery policy appears to conflict with operational data discovery policy, the operations policy shall always take precedence for compliance. 8.1.3.  When proprietary or intellectual  property  considerations and restrictions apply  to M&S assets, all restrictions on use and reuse will be clearly noted in discovery metadata. (T-0) 8.1.4.  Visibility  and  accessibility  shall  be  facilitated  by  creating  and  associating discovery metadata to key M&S assets. (T-0) 8.2.  M&S Data and Services Source Functional Owner Responsibilities. 8.2.1.  Ensure  that  information  needed  to  support  consuming  IT  capabilities  is  exposed and ensure they are loaded into a registry for discovery availability. (T-1) 8.2.2.  Develop  and  maintain  current  discovery  metadata  on  key  M&S  assets  they  are developing,  managing,  or  maintaining  pursuant  to  DoDI  5000.70.  M&S  discovery metadata  shall  be  visible,  accessible,  and  discoverable  in  the  DoD  M&S  discovery metadata search capability except where security classification precludes exposure. (T-1) 8.2.3.  Review the  DoD  M&S  discovery  metadata  search  capability  for  reuse opportunities prior to initiating development of M&S assets.  The DoD M&S discovery metadata search capability will be used to research for M&S reuse opportunities as part of  historical  data  research  prior  to  initiating  development  of  M&S  assets  in  order  to reduce duplication of existing technology and products.  (T-1) 8.2.4.  Identify  those  cases  in  which  data  and  services  exposure  is  not  possible  due  to system constraints or where optimal or authoritative M&S source data or models do not exist and document in accordance with the DoD standard. (T-1) 8.2.5.  Comply with relevant data standards for exposure, discovery, tagging and access. (T-1) 8.2.6.  To  the  maximum  extent  possible,  upload  M&S  discovery  metadata  to  a  system capable of providing data to  the OSD repository  in  the required format and includes all required  information  per  DoDI  5000.70.    Systems  may  employ  other  registries  (e.g., Space link: https://halfway.peterson.af.mil/SARP/)  if  they  have  classification  or  other  issues  that preclude the use of the DoD registry. (T-1) and  Cyberspace  Analysis  Resource Portal (SARP),  web   10 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 9.  M&S Professional Workforce. 9.1.  M&S  has  a  unique  core  body  of  knowledge  that  needs  an  appropriate  mix  of professional M&S personnel including officers and government civilian employees in diverse organizations.    There  is  no  separate  M&S  career  field,  so  tracking  and  management  of  this expertise is achieved through special experience identifiers (SEI) in accordance with AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted). 9.2.  While  personnel  in  Analytical,  Test,  Evaluation,  and  Acquisition  positions  have  M&S training incorporated into existing qualification programs, they will not be awarded an M&S SEI  as  part  of  their  normal  career  progression  unless  they  complete  the  associated prerequisites. 9.3.  Unit  commanders  will  recommend  Unit  Manpower  Document  positions  with  special experience  or  knowledge  requirements  for  appropriate  M&S  SEI  coding  by  the  respective MAJCOM functional manager.  (T-1)  JOHN W. RAYMOND, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 11 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoD Directive 5000.59, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Management, 8 August 2007 DoD Instruction 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and Accreditation, 9 December 2009 DoD Instruction 5000.70, Management of DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Activities, 10 May 2012, Chg 1, 19 March 2014 DoD Directive 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February 2009 DoD Instruction 8320.02, Sharing Data, Information, and Information Technology (IT) Services in the Department of Defense, 5 August 2013 DoD Instruction 8330.01, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS), 21 May 2014 AFPD 16-10, Modeling and Simulation, 23 January 2015 AFI 16-1001, Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A), 1 June 1996 AFI 33-115, Air Force Information Technology (IT) Service Management, 16 September 2014 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 33-401, Air Force Architecting, 17 May 2011 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013 AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, Incorporating Change 1, 28 January 2015 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACS—Assistant Chief of Staff ADS—Authoritative Data Source AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive CoC—Council of Colonels DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff 12 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 DIE—Defense Intelligence Enterprise DoD—Department of Defense ESG—Executive Steering Group LVC-OT—Live, Virtual, and Constructive Operational Training M&S—Modeling and Simulation MAJCOM— Major Command MSEA—Modeling and Simulation Executive Agent ODNI—Office of the Director of National Intelligence SAP—Special Access Program SAR—Special Access Required VV&A—Verification, Validation, and Accreditation Terms Accreditation—The official certification that a model or simulation and its associated data are acceptable for use for a specific purpose. (DoDI 5000.61) Authoritative Data Source—A recognized or official data production source with a designated mission statement or source/product to publish reliable and accurate data for subsequent use by customers. An authoritative data source may be the functional combination of multiple, separate data sources. (DoDD 8320.03). Constructive  Simulation—Simulations involving  simulated  people  operating  simulated systems.  Real  people  can  be  allowed  to  stimulate  (make  inputs)  to  such  simulations.  (M&S Glossary) Data asset—Any entity that is comprised of data.  For example, a database is a data asset that is comprised  of  data  records.  A  data  asset  may  be  a  system  or  application  output  file,  database, document, or web page. A data asset also includes a service that may be provided to access data from an application. For example, a service that returns individual records from a database would be  a  data  asset.  Similarly,  a  web  site  that  returns  data  in  response  to  specific  queries  (e.g., www.weather.com)  would  be a data asset. A human, system,  or application may create a data asset. (DoDD 8320.02) Discovery  metadata—A  type  of  metadata  that  describes  or  summarizes  key  attributes  and concepts, and allows assets (e.g., a model, simulation, or data) to be found using enterprise-level search capabilities. (DoDI 5000.70). DoD M&S discovery metadata search capability—An enterprise-level capability that enables the  discovery  of  metadata  about  M&S  assets  to  facilitate  visibility  into  the  resources  available across  the  DoD  and  within  other  Federal  and  non-Federal  agencies  engaged  in  M&S,  and federated with DoD M&S. Sources of the M&S assets described by the discovery metadata are maintained by DoD Components and other authoritative data and software repositories. Visibility into the discovery metadata enables a user or developer of M&S assets to identify potential reuse opportunities relative to their requirements. (DoDI 5000.70). AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 13 Interoperability—The  ability  of  a  model  or  simulation  to  provide  services  to  and  accept services  from  other  models  and  simulations,  and  to  use  these  exchanged  services  to  operate effectively together.  (SISO-REF-002-1999) Key  M&S  asset—An  M&S  tool,  data  set,  or  service,  including  models,  simulations,  or  data assets, that either exceeds $5M in annual expenditures, or is less than $5M but determined by the DoD  Component  to  be  “key.”  The  total  annual  expenditure  will  be  determined  using  standard justification documentation for DoD appropriations, such as RDT&E (R-docs), Procurement (P-docs), and O&M (O&M exhibits), which are provided to Congress pursuant to DoD 7000.14-R. (DoDI 5000.70) Legacy  Model—1.  Any  model  or  simulation  that  was  developed  either  in  the  past  or  for  a different purpose. (M&S Glossary)  2. For the purposes of this instruction, a model developed in the  past  which  is  still  in  use  that  was  not  implemented  using  today’s  standards  (e.g.,  software, communication,  etc.).  Some  legacy  models  have  been  modified  with  interfaces  to  some  of  the current  standards  extending  their  usefulness  and  interoperability  with  newer,  standards  based models. Live  simulation—A  simulation  involving  real  people  operating  real  systems.    (DoD  M&S Human Capital Strategy) Modeling  and  Simulation  (M&S)—1.  The  discipline  that  comprises  the  development  and/or use of models and simulations. (DoDD 5000.59, DoDI 5000.61)  2. The use of models, including emulators, prototypes, simulators, and stimulators, either statically or over time, to develop data as a basis for making managerial or technical decisions. The terms "modeling" and "simulation" are often used interchangeably. M&S assets—M&S tools, data, and services, including models and simulations, and data assets. (DoDI 5000.70). M&S  data—Data  used  to  develop  models  or  simulations,  data  used  as  input  to  models  and simulations, and data produced by models and simulations. (DoDI 5000.70) M&S  Executive  Agents  (MSEA)—DoD  MSEAs  are  designated  by  the  Under  Secretary  of Defense  for  Acquisition,  Technology,  and  Logistics  to  serve  as  domain  SMEs  for  the  M&S community.  Their  roles  are  to  provide  timely  and  authoritative  representations  of  the  natural environment and systems, and to establish V&V procedures for common and general-use M&S representations and their data.  The DoD MSEAs are sources of valid M&S data. M&S  services—An activity that enhances the ability to effectively and efficiently use M&S to accomplish  a  mission.    Examples  include  M&S  standards  development  and  promulgation, interoperability, Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A) process development,  and workforce development. (DoDI 5000.70) M&S  tools—Software that  implements  a model or simulation  or an adjunct  tool, i.e., software and/or hardware that is either used to provide part of a simulation environment (e.g., to manage the  execution  of  the  environment)  or  to  transform  and  manage  data  used  by  or  produced  by  a model or simulation. Adjunct tools are differentiated from simulation software in that they do not provide  a  virtual  or  constructive  representation  as  part  of  a  simulation  environment.  (DoDD 5000.59) 14 AFI16-1005  23 JUNE 2016 Metadata—Searchable  information  describing  the  characteristics  of  data;  data  or  information about  data;  or  descriptive  information  about  an  object’s  data,  data  activities,  systems,  and holdings.  For  example,  metadata  for  a  model  or  simulation  will  include  keywords  and  a description of the capabilities along with developer and user information. (DoDI 5000.70) Model—A  physical,  mathematical,  or  otherwise  logical  representation  of  a  system,  entity, phenomenon, or process. Operational  Training—Operational  training  is  mission-oriented  training  in  support  of warfighter  readiness.    It  is  a  crucial  element  of  all  the  AF  Service  Core  Functions.    It distinguishes itself from basic/initial training due to its focus on employment of equipment/skills in  an  operational  setting  as  opposed  to  learning  the  basic  use  of  equipment  or  development  of basic skills. Operational  Testing—A  generic  term  encompassing  the  entire  spectrum  of  operationally oriented test activities, including assessments, tests, and evaluations. Not a preferred term due to its lack of specificity.  Reference AFI 99-103 for additional detail. Reuse—The practice of using again, in whole or part, existing M&S tools, data, or services. Simulation—A method for implementing a model over time. Simulations are typically described as live, virtual, constructive, or a combination, depending on the application. (DoDD 5000.59) Virtual  Simulation—A  simulation  involving  real  people  operating  simulated  systems.  Virtual simulations  inject  human-in-the-loop  in  a  central  role  by  exercising  motor  control  skills  (e.g., flying  an  airplane),  decision  skills  (e.g.,  committing  fire  control  resources  to  action),  or communication skills (e.g., as members of a Command, Control, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C2ISR) team).  