Administrative Change to AFI 11-418, Operations Supervision  OPR:  ACC/A3TV  Reference to link in paragraph 7, CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures shown as   “https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/A3/A3T/A3TV/Reference/CONFERENCEHOTELPROCEDURE/Forms/AllItems.aspx” is hereby changed to   “https://acc.eim.acc.hedc.af.mil/org/A3/A3T/A3TV/CONFERENCE%20HOTEL%20Procedure/Forms/AllItems.aspx”. 7 March 2016    BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-418 14 OCTOBER 2015 Flying Operations OPERATIONS SUPERVISION  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  ACC/A3TV  Supersedes:  AFI11-418, 15 September 2011  Certified by: AF/A35  (Maj Gen Martin Whelan) Pages: 20  This  instruction  implements  AFPD  11-4,  Aviation  Service.    It  establishes  the  responsibilities, requirements, procedures and training for the supervision of flying operations.  This instruction applies  to  all  flying  units,  including  those  operating  Unmanned  Aircraft  Systems  (UAS)  at launch  and  recovery  airfields,  of  Air  Combat  Command  (ACC),  Air  Force  Global  Strike Command (AFGSC), Air Education Training Command (AETC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), Combat Air Forces (CAF) units within United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), and CAF units within Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).  This instruction applies to all Air National Guard (ANG) units with ACC, PACAF, and AETC oversight.  With the exception of Chapter 7 and  Conference  Hotel  Procedures,  this  instruction  does  not  apply  to  Air  Force  District  of Washington  (AFDW),  AFGSC  Helicopter  units,  Air  Force  Material  Command  (AFMC), Mobility  Air  Forces  (MAF)  units  within  AFRC,  MAF  units  within  USAFE  and  PACAF,  Air Force  Special  Operations  Command  (AFSOC),  the  United  States  Air  Force  (USAF)  Aerial Demonstration Team (Thunderbirds) and UAS under Remote Split Operations (RSO) in support of a geographic combatant commander.  These units follow Conference Hotel Procedures when judged necessary for safety of flight.  This instruction does not apply to Air Mobility Command (AMC).    Civil  Air  Patrol  US  Air  Force  (CAP/USAF)  is  not  required  to  comply  with  this instruction.  The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier 2 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance items.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management  System  (AFRIMS)”.    Recommendations  for  improvements  to  this  volume  are submitted  on  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication,  through  channels,  to forward  approved the  parent  MAJCOM  Stan/Eval. recommendations Branch: ACCDOTVSRTB@langley.af.mil).  This instruction requires units to issue supplements.   The requirement is discussed throughout the instruction and in detail at Chapter 8.   Parent  MAJCOM  Stan/Eval Standardization to lead command  OPR (ACC AF/A3 is the approval authority for interim changes to this instruction. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES The publication has been revised.  This rewrite of AFI 11-418 includes the outplacement of the CONFERENCE  HOTEL  Procedure  point  of  contact  list  to  SharePoint®.    Administration  of CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedure is accomplished by ACC A3TV on SharePoint®. 1.  General. 1.1.  The  basic  supervision  structure  for  flying  operations  consists  of  the  Operations  Group Commander  (OG/CC),  the  Supervisor  of  Flying  (SOF)  and  the  squadron  supervisors,  i.e., Operations Supervisor (Ops Sup, also referred to as Top 3). 1.2.  The  chain  of  supervision  begins  with  the  OG/CC,  through  the  SOF,  down  to  the individual squadron supervisors. The requirements for each position are specified in para 3.  Specific duties and responsibilities are defined throughout this instruction. 1.3.  For the purpose of this instruction “experienced” is used in accordance with (IAW) the definition provided in the Mission Design Series (MDS) specific AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1. 1.3.1.  For  the  purposes  of  this  instruction  only,  aircrews  are  also  considered “experienced” when previously rated “experienced” in another MDS or previously rated “experienced” in a different crew position in the same MDS. These individuals must then be selected by the Squadron CC and approved by the OG/CC for operations supervision responsibilities (T-2). 1.3.2.  Where no definition is provided, “experienced” is determined by the unit squadron commander and approved by OG/CC. 2.  Functions: AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 3 2.1.  SOF. When on duty, the SOF is a group-level position and is the direct representative of the OG/CC. The SOF is the focal point for command and control of flight operations. OG/CC decision authority is delegated to this position to accomplish the mission. 2.1.1.  SOF  is  not  required  for  rescue/helicopters/weather/electronic  attack/airlift/air refueling/special operations/deployed U-2 Ops.  (For C2ISR, the OG/CC will determine if a SOF program is required (T-2).  If a program is established this Instruction applies.  At a minimum, C2ISR units will establish an Ops Sup/Top 3 program (T-3).) 2.2.  Ops Sup/Top 3. The OG/CC will ensure that the squadron Ops Sup/Top 3 will only be filled  by  the  following  individuals:  the  squadron  commander,  the  squadron  operations officer,  assistant  operations  officer(s),  flight  commanders,  or  other  individuals  deemed qualified  by  the  squadron  commander  and  approved  by  the  OG/CC  (T-2).  ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or Air Operations Officer  (AOO) will determine requirements for Ops Sup and the appropriate personnel to fill the Ops Sup position (T-3).  ANG/AFRC may combine SOF and Ops Sup duties. 2.2.1.  Squadron commander and operations officer decision authority may be delegated to this position to make operations-related decisions and recommendations. 3.  Operations.  This  section  identifies  the  minimum  flying  unit  supervisory  requirements depending on types of operations involved.  (Additional requirements can be defined in the unit supplement). 3.1.  Types  of  Operations. The definitions for types of operations that are used in  Table 1 are: 3.1.1.  Daily  Flying  Operations.  Normal  or  surge  operations  at  the  unit's  home  station (this does not include other types of operations defined below). 3.1.2.  On-Going  Off  Station  Sorties.  Missions/sorties  that  do  not  takeoff  or  land  at home station. 3.1.3.  Deployed  Operations.  Flight operations away from home station that are part of a deployment, exercise or contingency. 3.1.4.  Scrambles.  Aircraft launched on a scramble order from an alert posture. 3.2.  Minimum Supervision Requirements. These are outlined in Table 1 for each type of operation. Table 1.  Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements. Type of Operation SOF Location Ops Sup Location Daily Flying Operations: Duty Location 1  On-Going Off-Station Sorties   N/R  Deployed Operations 2 As Required Squadron 1 (Active Duty/AFRC)   Available  3(ANG) Available  3 As Required Scrambles/Alert  N/R  N/R (Active Duty/AFRC)  4 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 Available 3 (ANG) Notes:  1.The SOF and Ops Sup may leave the unit operations complex (as defined by the unit supplement to this instruction) after aircraft depart the local area, workload permitting and will be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio or intercom (T-3). The SOF and Ops Sup will be at their duty locations 45 minutes prior to the estimated time of arrival of unit aircraft (T-3). For reduced flying operations the OG/CC may determine if a SOF is needed. Reduced flying operations are defined as 6 or less fighter aircraft/remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) or 2 or less of the same type of non-fighter aircraft or, while adhering to these limitations for fighter/RPA and non-fighter aircraft, 6 total aircraft. 2.For  deployed  operations,  the  detachment  commander  coordinates  with  host  base  Operations Group for supervision requirements. This may involve integrating into the host base SOF and/or Ops Sup program. 3.Be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio, or intercom.  (USAFE: Ops Sup for on-going  off  station  sorties  can  be  filled  by  an  experienced  aircrew  member  (SDO)  as defined in the unit supplement.)  4.  Responsibilities:  Note:  For  the  purposes  of  this  instruction,  the  terms  “operations  group commander” (OG/CC), “squadron commander” (SQ/CC), and “director of operations” (SQ/DO) also refer to their designated representatives. 4.1.  OG/CC (ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or AOO) will: 4.1.1.  Be responsible for the implementation, direction and execution of the Operations Supervision program (T-1). 4.1.2.  Be  immediately  available  to  the  SOF  or  Ops  Sup/Top  3  (if  no  SOF  is  either available or required based on the type of operation) for consultation during daily flying operations. 4.1.3.  Ensure (MOA)/letter of agreement (LOA) to avoid duplication of effort (T-2). flying  units  use  host/tenant  memorandum  of  agreement tenant 4.1.4.  Be the final approval authority for unit supplement to this instruction (T-2). 4.2.  SQ/CC (or equivalent) and/or SQ/DO will: 4.2.1.  Be  responsible  for  the  implementation,  direction  and  execution  of  the  Ops Sup/Top 3 program. 4.2.2.  Ensure a SOF/Ops Sup is on duty when required by Table 1 (T-3) 4.2.3.  Be available to the Ops Sup/Top 3 for consultation during flying operations. 4.3.  SOF will: 4.3.1.  Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as instructed by the OG/CC (T-3). AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 5 4.3.2.  Be  responsible  to  the  OG/CC  for  monitoring  and  supervising  all  phases  of  unit flying  operations  and  provide  guidance,  advice,  assistance  and  recommendations  to aircrews,  unit  supervisors  (i.e.  Ops  Sup/Top  3),  C2  personnel,  and/or  other  supporting agencies regarding the safe and efficient conduct of flight operations (T-3). 4.3.2.1.  Ensure  that  in-flight  emergency  (IFE)  recovery  plans  and  weather  related mission  changes  reflect  sound  airmanship,  follow  AFI  and  technical  order  (TO) guidance, and adhere to sound Operational Risk Management (ORM) principles (i.e. does it make sense?) (T-3). 4.3.3.  Direct  appropriate  actions,  on  behalf  of  the  OG/CC,  to  correct/prevent  unsafe situations.  This  includes  the  use  of  any  and  all  resources  to  include  radios,  FM  nets, telephone hot lines and all wing-flying operations on the ground or in the air. 4.3.4.  Prior  to  the  first  launch,  ensure  the  airfield/heliport  status  is  suitable  for  safe operations IAW Air Force, major command (MAJCOM) and local directives (T-3). 4.3.5.  During  an  emergency  or  an  abnormal  situation,  provide  aircrews  with  guidance, timely advice and assistance to determine a correct course of action. 4.3.6.  Be in a position to visually monitor the final approach and landing of IFE aircraft (T-3).  If  unable,  the  SOF  will  direct  another  highly  qualified  aircrew  member  to  be  in position to monitor the landing and provide needed assistance or guidance. (ANG/AFRC: Not required.) 4.3.7.  Monitor  the  status  of  primary  and  emergency  airfields/heliport  and  inform aircrews of changes that may affect flight operations (T-3). 4.3.8.  When  deteriorating  weather  conditions  affect  flying  operations,  coordinate  with wing  agencies  and  utilize  all  available  resources  (i.e.,  weather,  radar,  tower  personnel, pilot reports, etc.) to determine the best course of action for wing aircraft (T-3). The SOF will determine suitable weather alternates and inform the OG/CC accordingly. 4.3.9.  Coordinate with the air traffic control (ATC) watch supervisor or senior controller for runway changes as needed (T-3). 4.3.10.  Prepare a daily log to aid in tracking operations and major events. For units that do not  use  a SOF, the Ops Sup/Top 3 will  fill  out  this log  IAW  paragraph   4.4.8  Log format and content are defined by unit supplement. 4.3.11.  The SOF will debrief the OG/CC of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation, IFE, weather divert or other mission change requiring SOF action or intervention (T-3).  Ensure  that  the  applicable  Ops  Sup/Top  3  has  the  necessary  information  to  inform squadron leadership. 4.4.  Ops Sup/Top 3 will: 4.4.1.  Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as instructed by the SQ/CC or SQ/DO (T-3). 4.4.2.  Be immediately available to assist the SOF and aircrew. 4.4.3.  When the SOF is not qualified in the distressed aircraft or the unit does not require a SOF, be the primary source of technical assistance. 6 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 4.4.4.  For situations where both the SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 are not qualified to provide technical assistance to the type of aircraft airborne, schedule an instructor or experienced crewmember to be immediately available for aircraft technical assistance (T-3). 4.4.5.  Be  responsible  for  the  execution  of  the  daily  flying  schedule  and  coordinate  any mission changes as needed (e.g. aircraft tail number changes, crew swaps, flight-plan and airspace  changes)  (T-3).  Note:  Mission  commanders/flight  leads  are  required  to coordinate  with  the  Ops  Sup/Top  3  prior  to  the  flight  brief  when  intended  sortie  type, profile, airspace, and/or aircraft configuration do not match the approved schedule (T-3). 4.4.5.1.  Ensure  the  SOF  is  advised  of  any  changes  or  deviations  to  the  squadron's flying schedule. 4.4.5.2.  Ensure  electronic  scheduling  and  tracking  systems  are  updated  to  include changes to and deviations from the daily flying schedule. 4.4.5.3.  Be  the  primary  liaison  between  Ops  and  Maintenance  during  the  execution of the flying schedule. 4.4.6.  Be assisted by SARM personnel or a Duty Desk Officer (DDO) when needed. 4.4.7.  Ensure crews are briefed on the following (T-3): 4.4.7.1.  Aircraft/heliport and airfield status and configuration 4.4.7.2.  Scheduled and available airspace 4.4.7.3.  Applicable weather for locations that aircrew are flying 4.4.7.4.  Significant local hazards 4.4.7.5.  Additional items as defined in the unit supplement to this instruction 4.4.8.  Prepare,  at  squadron  commander’s  discretion,  a  daily  log  to  aid  in  tracking operations and major events. Log format and content is defined by the unit supplement. 4.4.9.  Debrief  the  SQ/CC  and/or  DO  of  any  aircraft  involved  in  an  unusual  situation, IFE, weather divert or other significant mission change (T-3). 4.5.  Other Key Wing Personnel: 4.5.1.  Wing  (or  equivalent)  commanders  ensure  other  group  commanders  support  the OG/CC when and where needed in order to execute an effective program. 4.5.2.  Mission Support group commanders are responsible for the maintenance, upgrade and repair of the applicable SOF facilities and equipment. 4.5.3.  Mission Support group/Logistic Readiness group commanders are responsible for maintenance, upgrade and repair of the SOF vehicle. 5.  Handling of In-Flight Emergencies: 5.1.  The  primary  objective  during  an  abnormal/emergency  situation  is  the  safe  recovery  of the aircrew and aircraft. When establishing procedures, units consider: 5.1.1.  Providing a single, discrete frequency for recovering an emergency aircraft. ATC and  the  emergency  aircrew  should  determine  when  to  use  a  single  frequency  approach AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 7 (SFA).  The  SOF  needs  access  to  the  SFA.  The  SFA  should  be  available  to crash/fire/rescue personnel to monitor the recovery. 5.1.2.  Using  the  command  post,  or  other  capable  agency,  to  notify  all  appropriate agencies and key personnel of an IFE and provide situation updates. 5.1.3.  Prioritizing actions during concurrent emergencies/abnormal situations. 5.1.4.  Authorizing  direct  communications  (over  discrete  SOF  or  squadron  common frequency) from the Ops Sup/Top 3 to an IFE aircrew. NOTE: Only ATC personnel may authorize  direct  communication  over  ATC  frequencies,  including  the  SFA  frequency. However,  this  does  not  preclude  the  SOF  and/or  Ops  Sup/Top  3  from  using  whatever communication  necessary,  to  include  GUARD  and  SFA,  to  prevent  an  unsafe  situation that could immediately jeopardize safe recovery. 5.1.5.  That only the ground on-scene commander, normally the fire chief, can terminate an emergency. 5.1.6.  That  the  final  decision  during  any  IFE/abnormal  situation  rests  with  the  aircraft commander.    However,  SOFs  may  declare  an  IFE  for  any  aircraft  based  on  their knowledge of the aircraft and the flight and airfield environment. 5.1.7.  Obtaining a chase ship for single ship emergency aircraft if time permits. 5.1.8.  If the SOF is not qualified in or technically knowledgeable of the aircraft with an IFE, then directing the Ops Sup/Top 3 or other highly experienced individual to report to the SOF's duty location during an abnormal situation/recovery if time permits. 6.  SOF Guidance.  Unless noted otherwise, this guidance applies to the Ops Sup/Top 3 when a SOF is either unavailable or not used. 6.1.  SOF/ATC Relationship: 6.1.1.  The  separation  and  sequencing  of  traffic  are  the  responsibilities  of  ATC.  Unless safety  is  an  issue,  the  SOF  works  directly  with  the  watch  supervisor.  To  promote effective and efficient flight operations, the SOF may suggest, based on knowledge of the flying schedule and unique circumstances of individual missions, actions that affect ATC concerns or desires. 6.1.2.  Except in an emergency, the SOF will not transmit over ATC frequencies without prior  coordination  with  ATC  (this  does  not  apply  to  dedicated  SOF  frequencies)  (T-1). All  radio  transmissions  to  a  distressed  aircrew,  from  other  than  the  SOF  or  ATC,  are coordinated through the SOF (this does not apply to the Ops Sup/Top 3 if communicating to the aircrew via a squadron common frequency). 6.2.  Duty Hours: 6.2.1.  Prior to beginning supervisory duties, the SOF will meet crew rest requirements as directed by  AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, as supplemented (T-1). 6.2.2.  Maximum duty day for SOF is 16 hours with a limit of 12 hours performing SOF duties.  The OG/CC may extend an individual SOFs duty day up to 16 hours on a case-by-case  basis.    (AFGSC  Missile  Wings:    For  alert  and  scramble  operations,  the  SOF maximum duty day is 24 hrs as long as alert/sleeping facilities are readily available). 8 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 6.2.3.  The  SOF  will  be  at  the  prescribed  duty  location  IAW  Table  1  NLT  30  minutes prior to first takeoff in order to complete required duties in paragraph  4.3 (T-3). 6.3.  Duty Location: 6.3.1.  Primary Duty Location.  The primary duty location is designated by the OG/CC. 6.3.2.  Alternate  Duty  Location.  The OG/CC will designate alternate duty locations in the  unit  supplement  to  this  instruction  (T-2).  The  OG/CC  will  ensure  the  location  has adequate communication equipment and the capability to monitor weather conditions (T-2).  It  is  desirable  to  have  a  SOF  duty  position  from  which  ground  operations,  takeoffs, landings  and  local  traffic  patterns  can  be  observed.  The  following  is  a  list  of recommended alternate locations: 6.3.2.1.  The runway monitoring unit (RMU)/runway supervisory unit (RSU). 6.3.2.2.  The unit dispatch desk. 6.3.2.3.  The command post. 6.4.  Equipment: 6.4.1.  The OG/CC will ensure the following communication equipment is functional and immediately available to the SOF (T-2): 6.4.1.1.  A  dedicated  multi-frequency  radio  (UHF,  VHF  and/or  HF,  as  appropriate based on supported aircraft capabilities). 6.4.1.2.  A  telephone  (land-line  or  cellular  telephone)  or  FM  radio  to  contact  the OG/CC (or designated representative), command post, Ops Sups, weather facility and ATC watch supervisors. Dedicated phone lines (hot-lines) are preferred. 6.4.2.  OG/CC will ensure access  to  authorized weather resources.   Per AFI 11-203V2, General Flight Rules, the local  Installation OSS weather flight or MAJCOM-designated centralized  briefing  facility  (or  equivalent)  should  be  the  primary  location  for  SOF weather information.   If not  available, the Regional  OWS (see section C of the FIH for contact information) or other DoD weather sources should be leveraged.  (T-2). 6.4.3.  The  OG/CC  will  ensure  locally  developed  checklists  are  available  to  outline procedures for normal and emergency situations that included, as a minimum, the items listed in Attachment 2 (T-3). 6.4.4.  The  OG/CC  will  ensure  dedicated  binoculars  are  immediately  available  for  SOF use when either in the primary or alternate duty location for a clear view of the runway (T-3). 6.4.5.  The OG/CC will ensure a SOF library is available (either hard copy or electronic as outlined in  the unit supplement  to  this instruction) that includes applicable directives and  instructions  (to  include  AF,  HHQ,  and  local  guidance),  aircraft  TOs,  checklists,  in-flight guides, and SOF read/information file (T-3). 6.4.6.  If  the  SOF  repositions  to  an  alternate  location,  the  OG/CC  will  ensure  the minimum  essential  equipment  outlined  in  this  section  is  available  at  this  new  location (pre-positioned or transported) (T-2). AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 9 6.5.  Certification: 6.5.1.  SOF  nominees  will  be  experienced  (IAW  paragraph    1.3),  rated  officers  with proven maturity, judgment  and supervisory ability  and combat mission ready (CMR) or basic mission capable (BMC) in a unit aircraft (T-3). 6.5.1.1.  Non-CMR  (N-CMR)/non-BMC  (N-BMC)  aircrew  members  may  perform SOF  duties  at  the  discretion  of  the  OG/CC  on  the  condition  that  the  status  is temporary in nature and all SOF currencies must be maintained IAW paragraph  6.7 (T-3). 6.5.2.  To  gain  initial  certification,  all  SOFs  will  complete  the  SOF  upgrade  program IAW paragraph  6.6 (T-3). 6.5.3.  SOFs  that  are  currently  under  a  Duties  Not  Involving  Flying  (DNIF)  status  may perform SOF duties when specifically cleared by a flight surgeon on an AF Form 1042. 6.5.4.  The OG/CC will rescind SOF certification for any of the following reasons (T-2): 6.5.4.1.  PCS  or  179/365  day  (AFRC:  365  day)  TDYs  (unless  the  individual  is performing SOF duties and able to retain currency while TDY). 6.5.4.2.  Direct  action  by  the  OG/CC  through  a  written  statement  in  the  individuals training folder and removal from the unit “Letter of Xs” or equivalent document. Any supervisor  may  recommend  action  to  the  OG/CC  for  the  removal  of  an  individual’s SOF certification. 6.5.5.  The  source  documents  for  certifying  SOF  certifications  are  the  OG/CC-signed approval  document  in  the  individual’s  training  folder  and  the  unit  “Letter  of  Xs”  or equivalent document. 6.5.6.  Units will define who is certified to upgrade other aircrew members to SOF in the unit supplement to this instruction (T-3). 6.6.  Certification Program: 6.6.1.  Documentation of the unit upgrade program is described in the unit supplement to this instruction, but, units will at a minimum, include a signed document by the OG/CC kept  in  the  individuals  training  folder  that  approves  him/her  for  SOF  duties  (T-3).  Additionally, upon completion of the upgrade flow, the unit will update “Letter of Xs”, or AF Form 4348, or equivalent document to reflect the SOF certification (T-3). 6.6.2.  Squadron commanders will screen and review (IAW para  6.5) all SOF candidates before nominating them for entry into the upgrade program (T-3). 6.6.3.  All  SOF  candidates  will  receive  an  interview  and  briefing  from  the  OG/CC  on responsibilities,  personal  philosophy  and  expectations  (T-3).  OG/CCs  emphasize  the SOFs position as a group level supervisor and that decision authority is delegated to the SOF position to ensure the safe accomplishment of the mission. 6.6.4.  The SOF upgrade consists of two supervised tours of two hours each (minimum of 4  hours  of  training  time)  with  a  current  and  experienced  SOF,  as  defined  in  the  unit supplement.  The  tours  are  conducted  on  two  different  days  in  order  to  maximize  the chances  of  the  upgradee  to  observe  differing  wind  and  weather  conditions.  Upgradees 10 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 will act as primary SOF on their second upgrade tour (T-3). The OG/CC will ensure the upgrade tour includes the following: 6.6.4.1.  Familiarization with  airfield/heliport procedures, primary and alternate duty locations, and local support agencies with emphasis on both unit and aircraft-specific operating procedures (AF, HHQ, and local), specifically capabilities and limitations. 6.6.4.2.  Operation of all SOF equipment and radios. 6.6.4.3.  Contact procedures for aircraft and support agencies. 6.6.4.4.  A review of publications and directives available to the SOF. 6.6.4.5.  Operation of SOF vehicle (requires a flight line permit/license). 6.6.4.6.  Successful handling of an IFE/PL (actual or simulated). 6.6.4.7.  Procuring/observing  weather  (to  include  forecaster  duties  and  priorities) information. 6.6.4.8.  Approach/Departure control information. 6.6.4.9.  Tower operations. 6.6.4.10.  Conduct  a  thorough  review  of  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  Procedures  at SharePoint®. 6.6.5.  Additionally,  prior  to  being  certified  as  a  SOF,  upgradees  will  accomplish  the following additional training/familiarization items (T-3): 6.6.5.1.  Crash/fire/rescue operations. 6.6.5.2.  Explosive ordnance disposal operations. 6.6.5.3.  Airfield Management operations. 6.6.5.4.  Command post operations. 6.6.5.5.  Airfield  Drivers  License.  Exception:  N/A  if  a  SOF  vehicle  is  either  not provided or there is not a need to drive on the actual airfield environment. 6.6.5.6.  Performance aspects and general characteristics of all base assigned aircraft. 6.6.5.7.  Accomplish a written examination containing a minimum of 25 questions on SOF  duties,  procedures  and  responsibilities.  Minimum  passing  grade  is  85  percent with all missed questions reviewed immediately following grading of the exam. 6.6.6.  The OG/CC will review upgradee training records and approve each upgradee  in writing prior to the individual performing SOF duties (T-2). 6.6.7.  For previously certified SOFs, the OG/CC may waive the upgrade requirements of these  paragraphs,  but  at  a  minimum,  the  upgradee  will  perform  at  least  one  supervised SOF  tour  with  an  experienced  SOF  with  emphasis  on  local  procedures  (T-3). EXCEPTION:  SOFs  who  have  lost  certification  due  to  N-CMR/N-BMC  status  IAW para 6.5.1.2, but still have currency IAW para 6.7. In this case, the SQ/CC must ensure that  the  unit  “Letter  of  Xs”  or  equivalent  document  is  updated  appropriately  before  the individual performs SOF duties (T-3). AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 11 6.7.  Currency/Recurrency. 6.7.1.  SOF  currency  is  90  days.    ANG/AFRC:  180  days  (AETC  ANG/Reserve Associate Instructor Pilots: 90 days). 6.7.2.  Individual  squadrons  will  track  SOF  currencies  (Aviation  Resource  Management System [ARMS] preferred) (T-3). 6.7.3.  To  regain  currency,  as  a  minimum,  accomplish  a  1-hour  supervised  tour  with  a current and certified SOF. 6.8.  Continuation Training (CT): 6.8.1.  OG/CC will ensure, at a minimum, SOF CT involves semi-annual  SOF meetings attended by all certified SOFs (highly encouraged for Ops Sups/Top 3s) (T-2). OG/CCs should be involved in developing meeting agendas. If unable to attend, SOFs will review meeting minutes that will be posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty (T-3). 6.8.2.  Annually, all SOFs are required to review applicable SOF guidance and directives as published in this instruction, unit supplement, and the SOF readfile (T-3). Additionally all  SOFs  will  receive  a  briefing  from  the  OG/CC  on  responsibilities,  expectations  and commander perspective (this briefing may be held as part of a semi-annual meeting) (T-3). If unable to attend the OG/CC briefing, SOFs will review briefing minutes posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty (T-3). 6.9.  Program Administration: 6.9.1.  The  OG/CC  will  designate  an  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  for  the administration of the program (T-3). 6.9.2.  The OPR will: 6.9.2.1.  Develop and administer the SOF initial training program (T-3). 6.9.2.2.  Develop and administer the SOF certification test (T-3). This is a controlled test of at least 25 questions that is updated and reviewed annually. 6.9.2.3.  If not retained by the squadron in individual training folders, the OPR retains all  original  initial  certification  and  continuation  training  records  until  the  individual PCSs to their next assignment (T-3). 6.9.2.4.  Establish  standardized  procedures  throughout  the  unit  for  monitoring  SOF currencies and continuation training requirements (ARMS preferred) (T-3). 6.9.2.5.  Schedule and give semi-annual SOF meetings (T-3). 6.9.2.6.  Post  SOF  meeting  minutes  in  the  SOF  readfile  within  one  week  of  the meeting (T-3). 6.9.2.7.  Develop normal and emergency SOF checklists and review/update annually (reference Attachment 2) (T-3). 6.9.2.8.  Update the SOF library publications when needed (reference para  6.4.6) (T-3). 6.9.2.9.  Develop the unit supplement to this instruction (T-3). 12 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 6.9.2.10.  Work  with  all  necessary  base  agencies  to  ensure  SOF  equipment  is maintained in operating condition and is adequate for mission accomplishment (T-3). 7.  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  Procedures.  These  procedures  make  aircraft  specialists accessible  to  the  SOF  or  Ops  Sup  and  aircrew  when  in-flight  situations  pose  systems-related questions that cannot be answered at the local level. See following SharePoint® link for MDS-specific https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/A3/A3T/A3TV/Reference/CONFERENCEHOTELPROCEDURE/Forms/AllItems.aspx      If  unable  to  access  SharePoint®,  contact  NAF  Stan/Eval  for assistance. points of contact:  7.1.  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  Procedures.    CONFERENCE  HOTEL  procedures  put  the OG/CC, SOF or Ops Sup/Top 3 directly in contact with a representative from the Air Force Life  Cycle  Management  Center  (AFLCMC),  the  Wright  Patterson  Program  Office,  or  the contractor. 7.2.  Emergency Assistance Numbers.  The contractor, Program Office or AFLCMC numbers at  SharePoint®  provide  a  link  to  the  most  knowledgeable  maintenance  and  engineering personnel for each weapons system. Once the terms "placing a CONFERENCE HOTEL call" are  expressed,  the  person  receiving  the  call  puts  the  flying  supervisor  in  contact  with  the appropriate experts. 7.3.  Call  Initiation.    To  initiate  CONFERENCE  HOTEL,  contact  the  appropriate  facility IAW table A1 and provide the following information: 7.3.1.  Indicate you are initiating a (simulated or actual) CONFERENCE HOTEL call for an in-flight emergency. 7.3.2.  Caller's name and telephone number/base. 7.3.3.  Type aircraft. 7.3.4.  Nature of problem. In all cases, stress to the person(s) contacted that the problem involves an AIRBORNE EMERGENCY and technical assistance is needed. 7.4.  Lead  MAJCOMs  are  responsible  for  keeping  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  information updated.  MAJCOMs  will  check  information  biannually  and  update  it  as  needed.  When notified  that  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  information  has  changed,  Lead  MAJCOM  must submit the change to ACC/A3TV as soon as possible and no later than 48 hours (T-2). 7.5.  Units  that  experience  problems  with  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  procedures  will  report problems  through  stan/eval  channels  to  their  MAJCOM  stan/eval  function  (T-2).    The MAJCOM  stan/eval  function  will  ensure  the  Lead  MAJCOM  is  informed  so  that CONFERENCE HOTEL information can be updated (T-2). 7.6.  If  units  discover  updated  CONFERENCE  HOTEL  contact  information  different  from the information in this guidance, they will immediately verify the corrected information and forward it via email through NAF/MAJCOM stan/eval channels to ACC/A3TV (no AF Form 847 required) (T-2). 7.7.  Flying units maintain a hardcopy of CONFERENCE HOTEL Contact POC's for aircraft which  they  routinely  operate  and  conduct  quarterly    reviews  to  ensure  it  is  kept  up-to-date with the SharePoint® version. AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 13 8.  Unit  Supplement.  Each  unit  will  provide  a  supplement  to  this  instruction  that,  at  a minimum, includes the following items (T-2): 8.1.  Unit organization with a designated OPR of the Operations Supervision program (para. 6.9.1.). 8.2.  Alternate  SOF  locations  and  specific  equipment  requirements  as  well  as  the  extent  of the unit operations complex for determining Ops Sup duty location. (para 6.3 and Table 1, Note 1 & 3). 8.3.  Supervision  requirements  and  duty  locations  when  an  functional  check  flight  (FCF)  is airborne (para 3.2, Note 1). 8.4.  Building and maintenance of a SOF Read File. 8.5.  Local  procedures and checklists for SOFs (reference  Attachment  2) to  include format and content of the daily  log (para   4.3.10) as well as medium  (i.e. electronic, hardcopy, or combination) for the SOF library (para  6.4.6). 8.6.  Procedures  for  how  deployed  units  integrate  into  host  unit  operations  supervision structure. 8.7.  Procedures (pager, phone, radio, etc.) for base C2 personnel to contact unit supervision during flying operations. 8.8.  Local CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures. 8.9.  Procedures  for  documenting  and  correcting  Operations  Supervision  program  and equipment deficiencies. 8.10.  Ops Sup/Top 3 qualifications, currencies, upgrade programs, crew rest and maximum duty period (if any). 8.10.1.  At  a  minimum,  SQ  CC  will  ensure  Ops  Sup/Top  3  upgrade  consists  of  at  least one supervised tour with an experience Ops Sup/Top 3 with a review of applicable AF, HHQ,  and  local  published  guidance  relating  to  the  daily  operations  and  supervision  of squadron aircraft. 8.10.2.  Documentation for the Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade is at the discretion of the unit, but will include, as a minimum, proof of training completion that is stored in the individual’s training folder (as applicable) (T-3). 8.11.  ANG/AFRC:  Determination  of  who  (other  than  the  WG/CC  or  OG/CC),  can  cancel flying. 8.12.  ANG/AFRC:  Designate  both  the  primary  and  alternate  SOF  duty  locations  (para  6.3.2). 8.13.  ANG/AFRC:  Establish procedures for other highly qualified individuals to assist with SOF  and  Ops  Sup/Top  3  duties  and  responsibilities  if  required  during  times  when  one supervisor is covering both SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 positions. 9.  Special  provisions  for  ANG/AFRC  and  smaller  than  wing-sized  units  (e.  g. geographically separated units (GSUs)). 14 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 9.1.  If a unit operates from a location with another organization (i.e., tenant unit), integration into host unit supervisory  program  should be attempted if operations are compatible. These procedures are implemented through LOAs/MOAs. 9.2.  At the discretion of the OG/CC (or equivalent), more than one supervisory position may be  covered  by  a  single  supervisor.  OG/CC  ensures  the  responsibilities  of  the  SOF  position take priority over all other duties and a single Ops Sup will be SOF certified (T-3). 9.3.  AFGSC helicopter units and missile wings are considered smaller than wing-sized units. 10.  Waivers.  Forward a copy of any waivers through local stan/eval channels to the MAJCOM Stan  Eval  function  who  then  forward  a  copy  to  the  OPR  for  this  instruction.  ANG/AFRC: forward a copy to the Numbered Air Force /A3 with oversight responsibility. ACC-gained ANG units will forward a copy to ACC/A3G.  JOHN W. RAYMOND, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 15 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 01 September 2004 AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 07 November 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1, MDS-specific Aircrew Training AF RDS on the AF Portal at the AFRIMS link, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/ Adopted Form AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms A/C—Aircraft ACC—Air Combat Command AETC—Air Education Training Command AFB—Air Force Base AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFI—Air Force Instruction AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command AMC—Air Mobility Command ANG—Air National Guard AOO—Air operations officer ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System ATC—Air traffic control BMC—Basic Mission Capable CMR—Combat Mission Ready CT—Continuation training C2—Command and Control 16 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 DNIF—Duty not involving flying DSN—Defense switching network FCF—Functional check flight FM—Frequency modulation GSU—Geographically separated units HF—High frequency IAW—In accordance with IFE—In-flight emergency LOA—Letter of agreement MAF—Mobility Air Forces MAJCOM—Major command MDS—Mission design series MOA—Memorandum of agreement N/A—Not applicable N/R—Not required N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready OO-ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center OG/CC—Operations group commander OPR—Office of primary responsibility Ops Sup—Operations supervisor ORM—Operational Risk Management PACAF—Pacific Air Forces PL—Precautionary landing POC—Point of contact RDS—Records disposition schedule RMU—Runway monitoring unit RPA—Remotely piloted aircraft RSU—Runway supervisory unit SARM—Squadron Aviation Resource Management SFA—Single frequency approach SOF—Supervisor of flying AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 17 SQ/CC—Squadron Commander TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center TO—Technical Order Top 3—Another term for Operations Supervisor UAS—Unmanned Aircraft System UHF—Ultra high frequency USAF—United States Air Force USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe VHF—Very high frequency WG—Wing WG/CC—Wing commander  18 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 Attachment 2 SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST A2.1.  Procedural  Checklist.  The SOF will have available a procedural checklist that includes detailed instructions for the following (if applicable): Table A2.1.  SOF Procedural/Emergency Checklist. Item Number  Item  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  Opening  SOF changeover  Closing  OG/CC notification  Aircraft emergency  Barrier engagement  Emergency divert  Weather recall  Change of runway  Runway closure  Anti-hijack  Communications search  Aircraft dispersal  Controlled bailout  AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 19 Hung ordnance  Bird condition  Controlled jettison  Hydrazine spill/exposure  Hot brakes  Suspected Lasing Incident Aircraft crash  Alert force exercise/scramble (if applicable)  Contractor/depot emergency telephone numbers  Telephone numbers for applicable regional SOFs  Telephone numbers for local Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) flight service (if OCONUS, numbers for the associated Host Nation ATC facility), local terminal radar  facility,  and  other  local  control  towers  and/or  radar  facilities  that  could potentially be used as alternate airfields  15  16  17  18  19  20 21  22  23  24  25   20 AFI11-418  14 OCTOBER 2015 Attachment 3 SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE A3.1.  Normal  Procedures.  Note:  This  checklist  is  an  example  of  a  normal  checklist.  Actual local checklist contents are at the discretion of the OG/CC. A3.1.1.  Report to duty location 30 minutes prior to first scheduled takeoff. A3.1.2.  Review and sign off Flight Crew Information File/SOF read file. A3.1.3.  Review daily flying schedule. A3.1.4.  Ensure all ramps, taxiways, runways and appropriate areas are inspected before the first flight of the day (visual inspection by the SOF is not required if airfield management has performed the inspection). A3.1.5.  Inspect SOF kit and equipment for currency/operation. A3.1.6.  Obtain current information on: A3.1.6.1.  Weather: A3.1.6.1.1.  Local A3.1.6.1.2.  Divert bases A3.1.6.1.3.  Operating areas and ranges A3.1.6.1.4.  Low-level routes A3.1.6.2.  Airfield Status (Local and Divert Bases): A3.1.6.2.1.  Active runway A3.1.6.2.2.  Barriers A3.1.6.2.3.  Runway condition reading A3.1.6.2.4.  Notices to Airman A3.1.6.2.5.  Navigational aids A3.1.6.2.6.  Airfield lighting A3.1.6.2.7.  Bird activity A3.1.6.2.8.  Emergency response vehicle status A3.1.7.  Brief  the  OG/CC  or  his  designated  representative  on  the  airfield  status,  weather conditions, divert bases, unusual events and the daily flying schedule.  