 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-601 Incorporating Through Change 2, 6 AUGUST 2014 18 FEBRUARY 2011 Operations Support IMPLEMENTATION OF, AND COMPLIANCE WITH, INTERNATIONAL ARMS CONTROL AND NONPROLIFERATION AGREEMENTS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A5XP  Supersedes:   AFI 16-601, 7 June 2004 Certified by: AF/A5X  (Maj Gen Richard T. Devereaux) Pages: 22   This  Instruction  implements  AFPD  16-6,  International  Arms  Control  and  Nonproliferation Agreements  and  the  DOD  Foreign  Clearance  Program.  It  gives  the  directive  requirements  for implementing and complying with arms control and nonproliferation agreements. It applies to all organizations involved in the acquisition, operation, and support of weapon systems or items that are affected by arms control and related agreements. Additional related publications include AFI 16-603,  Education  and  Training  Requirements  for  Implementation  of,  and  Compliance  with, Arms  Control  Agreements,  AFI  51-402,  Weapons  Review,  and  AFPD  36-28,  Awards  and Decorations  Programs.  This  Instruction  is  consistent  with  AFPD  13-5,  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise,  and  incorporates  guidance  to  ensure  related  Instructions  remain  consistent  with AFPD 13-5 and Air Force priorities for the Nuclear Enterprise.  It  also  implements  AFI 33-360 Communications and Information’s tier marking requirements. This instruction applies to the Air Force  Active  as  well  as  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  and  Air  Force  Reserve  Command (AFRC)  Units.  The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered compliance items. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  chain  of  command. Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are   2  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 maintained  in  accordance  with  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  interim  change  revises  AFI  16-601  by  adding  the  Waiver  Authority  Statement  and  Tier waiver guidance from AFI 33-360 in the opening paragraph and by adding tier waiver authority markings  for  each  requirement  mandated  for  compliance  at  the  Wing  level  in  accordance  with AFI  33-360.    It  also  revises  language  regarding  risks  associated  with  assignment  of  non-treaty compliance  responsibilities  to  treaty  compliance  officers  (TCOs),  updates  the  treaties  and agreements  listed within Attachment 2,  and clarifies the requirements, processes,  and timelines associated with notifications for the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe.  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Responsibilities:   .....................................................................................................  Treaty negotiations support and policy formulation:   .............................................  Treaty implementation:   ..........................................................................................  Treaty compliance:   ................................................................................................  Education and training:   ..........................................................................................  Overall budgeting and managing manpower:   ........................................................  Adopted Forms:   .....................................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—ARMS CONTROL TABLES    1.  Responsibilities:   2 4 4 5 7 8 11 12 15 1.1.  The Air  Force  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans & Requirements (AF/A3/5) is the Air Force central authority for arms control agreements. 1.2.  The  Strategic  Plans  and  Policy  Division  (AF/A5XP)  is  the  Treaty  Implementation Manager for all aspects of the Air Force arms control process, and: 1.2.1.  Manages negotiations support;  policy  and guidance formulation;  implementation; compliance;  education;  training;  manpower  allocation;  and  program  budgeting  and execution. 1.2.2.  Informs and advises senior Air Force leadership on arms control issues. 1.2.3.  Answers congressional requests about treaty impacts on Air Force operations. 1.2.4.  Assists  the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Acquisition,  Technology,  and Logistics,  USD(AT&L),  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (Acquisition),  SAF/AQ,  and  the  Deputy  Under  Secretary  for  Space  Programs,  SAF/SP, with their arms control-related acquisition responsibilities. AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   3  1.2.5.  Supports Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Department of Energy, Office of the Secretary of  Defense (OSD), and Air  Force organizations in  the research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) of new arms control and verification technologies. 1.2.6.  Represents  the  Air  Force  at  all  treaty-related  forums,  including  Joint  Staff, USD(AT&L), and other policy meetings whenever they are formed. 1.2.7.  Coordinates  with  AF/A10  on  treaty  matters,  implementation  and  compliance measures  that  affect  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise,  and  ensures  related  Instructions remain consistent with the guidance contained in this Instruction and AFPD 13-5. 1.3.  Major commands (MAJCOMs), relevant  Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) and equivalent units, Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), and the Air National Guard (ANG) will: 1.3.1.  Establish  a  Treaty  Office  or  point  of  contact  to  deal  specifically  with treaties/agreements  applicable  to  their  command.  The  office  provides  a  link  among subordinate  wings  and  Direct  Reporting  Units  (DRUs),  the  MAJCOM,  and  the Headquarters Air Force. MAJCOM responsibilities include implementation, compliance, policy  guidance,  training,  and  resource  management.  Their  arms  control  duties  and responsibilities are derived, in part, from AFPD 16-6. 1.3.2.  Identify  any  arms  control  requests,  issues,  or  concerns  to  AF/A5XP  in  order  to coordinate  expedient  resolution,  including  those  involving  other  DOD  components  or government agencies. 1.4.  SAF/AQ will: 1.4.1.  Ensure Program Managers provide the relevant documents for their programs and activities  at  program  review  milestones  throughout  their  life  cycle  to  AF/A5XP  for review of compliance with existing arms control agreements. 1.4.2.  Request  AF/A5XP  guidance  when  any  arms  control  compliance  concerns  arise with programs under their purview. 1.4.3.  Complete compliance certification reports as requested by AF/A5XP. 1.5.  The Office of the General Counsel (SAF/GC) is responsible, within the Department of the  Air  Force,  for  legal  interpretation  of  international  arms  control  and  nonproliferation agreements. SAF/GC shall provide advice and assistance for negotiation of, implementation of, and compliance with, international arms control and nonproliferation agreements. 1.6.  Waiver Authority.  When complying with official policy, guidance, and/or procedures, the unit may request a waiver. The fundamental aim of a waiver must be to enhance mission effectiveness  at  all  levels,  while  preserving  resources  and  safeguarding  health  and  welfare. When  a  commander  approves  a  waiver,  the  commander  is  communicating  to  subordinates and  superiors  that  the  commander  accepts  the  risk  created  by  non-compliance.  Each requirement  mandated  for  compliance  at  the  Wing  level  found  within  this  Instruction  is tiered, signifying the appropriate waiver authority to the requirement (e.g. T-0, T-1, T-2, or T-3).    See  AFI  33-360  paragraph  1.9  for  waiver  process  and  a  detail  description  of  the standardized waiver authority levels.     4  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 2.  Treaty negotiations support and policy formulation: 2.1.  AF/A5XP  is  the  primary  focal  point  for  Air  Force  inputs  to  the  Joint  Staff  for  U.S. government negotiations of new or modified treaties and international agreements. 2.2.  AF/A5XP  will  maintain  awareness  of  concepts  and  proposals  from  governmental, international,  and  non-governmental  organizations  for  new  treaties  and  international agreements.  As  necessary,  it  will  research  these  initiatives  and  develop  positions  on  them. AF/A5XP will organize and host meetings/conferences to better communicate the initiatives and their impact  on Air  Force operations and resources. Other Air  Force  organizations will participate as necessary as functional subject-matter experts. 3.  Treaty implementation: 3.1.  AF/A5XP will prepare for the implementation of treaties about to enter into force while also managing the implementation process for treaties currently in force. 3.1.1.  Treaties and agreements entering into force: 3.1.1.1.  The Air Force must be prepared for treaty implementation prior to entry into force.  This  process  can  start  with  the  creation  of  a  DOD  Implementation  Working Group  (IWG)  or  may  begin  earlier  if  AF/A5XP  understands  the  provisions  of  the treaty entering into force sufficiently to allow planning and implementation to begin. 3.1.1.2.  AF/A5XP  will  provide  guidance  and  taskings  to  affected  Air  Force organizations to ensure they are ready for implementation of the treaty entering into force. It may establish an Air Force working group of affected organizations to ensure key guidance can be developed efficiently and important tasks can be identified and completed in  time to  meet  implementation  deadlines.  Initial guidance may  be in  the form  of  a  policy/guidance  memorandum  or  other  interim  publication,  but  will eventually  be  formalized  in  Air  Force  guidance  (Air  Force  Instructions,  Air  Force Manuals, etc.). 3.1.1.3.  AF/A5XP will provide information to appropriate organizations and support testimony on the status of Air Force preparations for implementation and compliance as required. 3.1.2.  Treaties in force: 3.1.2.1.  Implementation responsibilities will continue to be carried out based on the provisions  of  the  treaty,  any  implementing  legislation,  and  guidance  from  OSD  and the  Joint  Staff.  AF/A5XP  will  ensure  Air  Force  implementation  of  treaties  is consistent with the general procedures and guidance issued by the USD(AT&L) and with  coordinated military  guidance provided by  the Chairman of the Joint  Chiefs of Staff.  AF/A5XP  will  represent  the  Air  Force  on  DOD  IWGs  established  for  each treaty. 3.1.2.2.  AF/A5XP will provide guidance on the interpretation and implementation of arms  control  and  nonproliferation  treaties  and  agreements.  Where  appropriate, AF/A5XP  guidance  will  be  published  as  an  Air  Force  Instruction  or  Air  Force Manual. AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   5  3.1.2.3.  Processes  and  procedures  must  be  put  into  place  to  ensure  the  treaty provisions are implemented. 3.1.2.3.1.  For  treaty  provisions  requiring  system  elimination  or  reductions,  or which  impact  operations,  AF/A5XP  will  work  with  the  appropriate  MAJCOM and Headquarters Air Force organizations to ensure all provisions are carried out. AF/A5XP  will  seek  to  do  so  in  a  way  that  minimizes  impact  on  those organizations while adhering to U.S. treaty obligations. 3.1.2.3.2.  For  those  treaties  requiring  the  gathering  and  reporting  of  data, AF/A5XP  will  ensure  the  creation,  continuity,  and  effective  implementation  of reporting systems. AF/A5XP will manage Air Force reporting nodes at designated organizations for those treaties requiring data reporting. 3.1.2.3.3.  For  treaties  with  restrictions  on  Air  Force  research,  development,  test or  acquisition  of  certain  capabilities,  AF/A5XP  will  work  with  the  appropriate Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF)  office  and/or  Program  Manager  to  ensure  treaty provisions  are  implemented  while  mitigating  impact  on  Air  Force  acquisition programs. 3.1.2.3.4.  For treaties that affect the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, AF/A5XP will work  with  AF/A10  to  integrate  strategic  nuclear,  non-strategic  nuclear,  and conventional forces into operational strategies, organizational concepts, and plans, and to ensure related Air Force Instructions are consistent with AFPD 13-5 and all applicable Arms Control Treaties and Agreements. 3.2.  MAJCOMs direct overall arms control implementation for their command and maintain oversight on arms control implementation requirements at the wing level. MAJCOM Treaty Offices: 3.2.1.  Provide  implementation  guidance  for  their  subordinate  units  developed  from higher headquarters guidance and coordinated with AF/A5XP. 3.2.2.  Review  and  coordinate  on  higher  headquarters  Directives  and  Instructions  and participate  in  the  review  and  coordination  of  arms  control  implementation  policy guidance. 3.2.3.  Maintain oversight of their subordinate units’ implementation of OSD and higher headquarters policies to ensure adherence with arms control treaties and agreements, thus ensuring  consistent  application  of  policy  across  MAJCOMs  and  at  the  NAF/Center  and Wing level. 4.  Treaty compliance: 4.1.  Compliance  entails  ensuring  Air  Force  activities  and  systems  continue  to  adhere  to treaty provisions once a treaty has entered into force. 4.2.  AF/A5XP:  Provides  policy  interpretation  and  guidance  on  Air  Force  compliance  with arms control agreements. It will ensure Air Force compliance is consistent with the general procedures and guidance issued by the USD(AT&L) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 4.3.  Acquisition of new systems or modifications of existing systems:   6  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 4.3.1.  AF/A5XP  will  review  requirement  documents,  through  the  Information  and Resource  Support  System  (IRSS)  established  by  AF/A5R,  to  monitor  that  systems  are treaty compliant. If AF/A5XP determines that a requirement has an arms control concern, it will coordinate with AF/A5R to address the matter. 4.3.2.  For  Air  Force  acquisition  programs,  AF/A5XP  will review  program documentation for treaty compliance. It is the responsibility of each program manager to ensure  their  program  is  reviewed  for  arms  control  compliance.  Prior  to  a  milestone review,  the  program  manager  will  deliver  the  program’s  Life  Cycle  Management  Plan (LCMP)  or  Acquisition  Strategy  to  AF/A5XP  or  AF/A5XP-designated  organization, allowing sufficient time to conduct an arms control compliance review. Once the review is  complete, either a certificate of review  will be provided or AF/A5XP  will work with the  program,  through  the  appropriate  channels,  to  address  any  treaty  compliance concerns. During the milestone review, legal personnel (SAF/GC for programs reviewed at the HAF level and JA for those reviewed at those centers) will certify that a review for arms  control  compliance  was  conducted  and  the  program  manager  possesses  the AF/A5XP  certificate  of  review.  This  requirement  is  in  addition  to  the  legal  review performed by AF/JAO for the acquisition of new or modified systems, in accordance with AFI 51-402. 4.4.  AF/A5XP reviews force structure planning with the Director of Programs (AF/A8P) and the Director of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X) to ensure arms control treaty compliance while maintaining flexibility in force structure employment. 4.5.  All Air Force organizations will: Refer arms control-related questions or issues (from planned activity to on-site inspection discrepancies) to the relevant MAJCOM Treaty Office, AF/A5XP,  or  SAF/AAZ  as  appropriate.  The  referring  organization  will  seek  review  from AF/A5XP  before  testing,  deploying,  or  accomplishing  programs  or  activities  with  the potential    for    raising    compliance    issues.  When  there  is  doubt    whether  a  review  is necessary, it shall be sought. (T-1) 4.5.1.  Organizations shall provide background information on why they have determined there might be a compliance matter. They will provide information on what the activity or program is, any time constraints they face on resolving the compliance issue, contact information  for  a  subject-matter  expert  (SME)  who  can  further  describe  the  activity  or program, and any documentation that will aid in determining compliance. (T-1) 4.5.2.  If AF/A5XP  cannot determine whether the program or activity is compliant, or a review is requested by OSD, AF/A5XP will facilitate the resolution of compliance issues with  the  appropriate  DOD  Compliance  Review  Group  (CRG).  AF/A5XP  will  represent the Air Force, as required, at the CRG. 4.6.  MAJCOMs:  Direct  overall  arms  control  compliance  for  their  command  and  maintain oversight  on  subordinate  units  and  DRUs  fulfilling  arms  control  implementation  and compliance requirements. MAJCOM Treaty Offices: 4.6.1.  Provide  compliance  guidance  for  their  subordinate  units  developed  from  higher headquarters guidance and coordinated with AF/A5XP. 4.6.2.  Review and coordinate on higher headquarters Directives and Instructions. AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   7  4.6.3.  Participate  in  the  review  and  coordination  of  arms  control  compliance  policy guidance and may be tasked as SMEs on appropriate CRGs. 4.6.4.  Maintain  oversight  of  subordinate  units’  compliance  with  OSD  and  higher headquarters policies to ensure adherence with arms control treaties and agreements, thus ensuring  consistent  application  of  policy  across  MAJCOMs  and  at  the  NAF/Center  and Wing level. 4.7.  Compliance  reporting.  Upon  direction  from  USD(AT&L),  AF/A5XP  will  submit compliance reports. AF/A5XP will request applicable organizations to review their activities and provide the requested information to AF/A5XP within 45 calendar days of receiving the request.  AF/A5XP  will  then  review,  consolidate  and  provide  the  compliance  reports  to USD(AT&L). compliance 4.8.  MAJCOM  baseline to  headquarters  and  Wing Implementation  and  compliance  plans.  Each  MAJCOM  will  prepare  and  forward  to AF/A5XP  baseline  information  associated  with  their  compliance  responsibilities  for  those agreements  listed  in  Attachment  2  that  affect  the  MAJCOM,  and  for  future  treaties  as directed by AF/A5XP. reporting 4.8.1.  This baseline information must include: 4.8.1.1.  An office of primary responsibility and point of contact. 4.8.1.2.  A  summary  of  organizational  assets  and  activities  covered  by  the  subject agreement. 4.8.1.3.  A  detailed  listing  of  specific  agreement  provisions  and  the  methods  for carrying out the provisions. 4.8.1.4.  An explanation of how the MAJCOM carries out reporting requirements. 4.8.2.  Wings  will  develop  treaty  implementation  and  compliance  plans,  as  directed  by their parent  MAJCOM, that  implement  higher headquarters and MAJCOM guidance on arms  control  and  nonproliferation  treaties  and  agreements.  The  development  and execution of these plans must ensure the Wing’s  full implementation of, and subsequent compliance  with,  all  treaties  and  agreements  that  have  entered  into  force.  Wings  may request  a  waiver  from them  from  developing  an implementation and compliance plan for a particular treaty or agreement if they conclude it  does  not  apply  to  their  facilities,  equipment,  or  operations.  (T-2)    MAJCOMs  will coordinate their response to these Wing exemption requests with AF/A5XP. (T-1) their  MAJCOM  exempting 5.  Education and training: 5.1.  AF/A5XP is responsible for overall education and training of activities related to arms control obligations within the Air Force. 5.2.  Each MAJCOM Treaty Office will, in concert with AF/A5XP,  educate and train those personnel directly involved with arms control activities and raise awareness of arms control throughout the command. 5.3.  AFI  16-603  provides  further  details  for  arms  control  education  and  training requirements and activities.   8  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 6.  Overall budgeting and managing manpower: 6.1.  Funding: 6.1.1.  AF/A5XP  manages  overall  Air  Force  arms  control  funding,  designates  a  USAF Arms  Control  Program  Element  Monitor  (PEM),  and  tracks  Air  Force  arms  control funding  execution.  AF/A5XP  submits  requirements  to  SAF/FM  with  arms  control guidance for carrying out its arms control-related financial management responsibilities. It  provides  resource  information  on  arms  control  implementation  and  compliance  to USD(AT&L),  the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  (Comptroller),  the  Under  Secretary  of Defense  for  Policy,  and  as  required,  the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Personnel  and Readiness. 6.1.2.  AF/A5XP  provides  arms  control  inputs  to  AF/A8  to  determine  future  force structure requirements and ensures they are captured in the President’s budget submission to  Congress.  Resource  actions  that  involve  the  implementation  of  and  compliance  with international arms control and nonproliferation agreements shall be structured to  clearly identify/distinguish any funds uniquely used for these purposes. 6.1.3.  AF/A5XP  budgets  and  allocates  MAJCOM  funding  to  execute  directed  arms control  activities.  Funding  provided  for  international  arms  control  and  nonproliferation agreements implementation and compliance activities at the MAJCOM level can only be re-programmed with the consent of AF/A5XP and in accordance with existing laws and regulations. 6.1.3.1.  MAJCOM  Treaty  Offices  function  as  resource  managers,  monitoring  arms control  funding  and  manpower.  Successful  execution  requires  close  coordination between  MAJCOM  Treaty  Offices,  Wing  Treaty  Offices,  offices  utilizing  O&M funds  under  PEC  35145F,  and  appropriate  financial  management  counterparts. Budgeting  and  manpower  requirements  differ  from  base  to  base  and  MAJCOM  to MAJCOM. Effective resource management is necessary to  ensure sufficient funding and proper program execution. 6.1.3.2.  MAJCOM  Treaty  Offices  work  closely  with  the  Program  Element  Monitor (PEM) for their Air Force Arms Control Program Element. 6.1.3.3.  Resource  managers  are  responsible  for  managing  resources  and  budgeting funds  for  MAJCOM  arms  control  activities  and  ensuring  MAJCOM  Wing requirements  are  included  in  budget  submissions.  The  MAJCOM  Treaty  Office  and FM work with the field units to build an annual Execution Plan. 6.1.3.4.  Wing  treaty  personnel  provide  their  requirements  to  the  MAJCOM  Treaty Offices,  which  consolidate  these  requirements  and  submit  them  to  AF/A5XP. MAJCOM  Treaty  Offices  must  ensure  that  all  subordinate  Wing  requirements  are identified and defended, as necessary. (T-2) 6.1.4.  SAF/AQ  will  monitor  the  funding  allocated  through  the  arms  control  program element for treaty-driven requirements in Air Force acquisition programs. 6.2.  Manpower: 6.2.1.  AF/A5XP  is  responsible  for  authorizing  arms  control  manpower  billets,  ensuring authorizations match logistical requirements, and working with MAJCOM Treaty Offices AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   9  on the location of those authorizations to match treaty requirements. Any adjustments to MAJCOM  manpower  programming  in  relation  to  international  arms  control  and nonproliferation agreements must be coordinated through AF/A5XP. AF/A5XP provides arms  control  inputs  to  AF/A1  to  determine  future  manpower  requirements,  and  ensures they are captured in the President’s budget submission to Congress. 6.2.2.  MAJCOMs,  relevant  NAFs  and  equivalent  units,  AFDW,  and  ANG  will  each establish  a  Treaty  Office  or  point  of  contact  to  deal  specifically  with  each  applicable treaty and agreement. 6.2.2.1.  MAJCOM  Treaty  Offices  are  responsible  for  monitoring  manpower authorizations, and recommending  changes  to  the  Commanders’  staff  variance  outlined  in  Air  Force Manpower Standard (AFMS) 10A0. defending  manpower requirements, identifying and 6.2.2.2.  Wings, MAJCOMs, and organizations with arms control billet authorizations are  centrally  managed  by  AF/A5XP.  These  billets  are  not  under  the  control  of MAJCOM  planners.  Moving  or  reclassifying  a  billet  requires  coordination  and concurrence  from  AF/A5XP.  MAJCOM  planners  must  ensure  they  have  the appropriate  billet  authorizations  assigned  to  support  MAJCOM  headquarters  and subordinate Wing/Unit arms control requirements. 6.2.3.  MAJCOMs  will,  with  A5XP  assistance,  establish  a  treaty  compliance  point  of contact  at  the  Wing-level  or  equivalent  (where  they  are  the  host  command).  Where  a dedicated arms control manpower billet is authorized, the assigned individual will be full-time.  He/she  will  have  an  additional  duty  alternate  assigned  to  assist  in  the  treaty compliance officer (TCO) duties. If a dedicated billet is not authorized, but the Wing still has arms control implementation and compliance obligations, the arms control duties will be  managed  by  two  additional  duty  TCOs  (one  primary  and  one  alternate).  (T-1)  In situations where the number of Wings with significant treaty compliance responsibilities exceeds  the  number  of  funded  TCO  billets,  MAJCOMs  can  consider  creating  a regionalized concept where TCOs are established at host Wings as Operating Locations of the MAJCOM and are assigned to support multiple Wings and Geographical Separated Units  (GSUs).  While  at  home  station,  these  regional  TCOs  should  still  function  as members of the Commander’s special staff of their respective host Wing (see paragraph 6.2.3.1 below). 6.2.3.1.  Full-time Wing-level treaty compliance personnel (paid for by PEC 35145F), as  per  AFMS  10A0,  shall  be  on  the  Wing  Commander’s  special  staff,  unless  the MAJCOM  and  Wing  have  reached  agreement  for  other  arrangements.  Part-time Wing-level  treaty  compliance  personnel,  as  per  AFMS  10A0,  shall  be  on  the  Wing Commander’s  special  staff  and  not  a  functional  staff  office  (e.g.  Mission  Support Group),  unless  the  MAJCOM  and  Wing  have  reached  agreement  for  other arrangements. (T-2) 6.2.3.2.  Wing-level  treaty  compliance  personnel  are  a  scarce  manning  resource.  Frequently they have no, or minimally trained, backup.  Full-time treaty compliance personnel must not be assigned additional duties.  Commanders may assign additional duties  to  part-time  personnel,  but  these  duties  must  not  interrupt  the  TCOs  primary responsibility  –  to  ensure  the  Wing  can  accomplish  all  treaty  compliance   10  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 requirements. If a TCO reports to someone other than the Wing Commander, then the TCO  may  not  be  assigned  additional  duties  without  coordination  with  and concurrence from the TCO’s supervising organization. (T-1) 6.2.3.3.  Local  escorts  supporting  inspection  activities  will  report  to  the  Wing-level treaty  compliance  personnel  and  be  relieved  of  all  other  assigned  responsibilities while  performing  escort  duties  associated  with  arms  control inspection activities/events.  Wings  should  have  qualified  medical  support  available  throughout the activity. (T-1) 6.2.4.  AF/A5XP conducts the Air Force Treaty Compliance Officer recognition program. The program  is  established by the Chief,  International Treaties  and Agreements Branch (AF/A5XPI) and recognizes outstanding contributions to Air Force treaty compliance and implementation.  To  be  eligible  to  receive  this  award,  the  individual  must  be  a  U.S. government  civilian  or  military  member  responsible  for  Air  Force  arms  control  treaty implementation  and  compliance  at  the  HAF,  MAJCOM,  NAF  and  equivalent  units, Wing,  or  DRU  level.  AF/A5XPI  is  the  awarding  authority.  The  award  consists  of  a certificate and an AF/A5XPI memento. The certificate and memento will be awarded on an  annual  basis  in  conjunction  with  a  significant  treaty-related  event  such  as  a  training course, exercise, or workshop. 6.2.5.  Mandatory  Advance  Notification  of  Changes  to  USAF  Organizations  within  the USEUCOM area of responsibility (AoR).  The United States government is obligated to provide  our  treaty  partner  nations  with  advance  notification  of  certain  permanent organizational changes for units located in the USEUCOM AoR.  For USAF units, these notifications are initiated by HQ USAFE and are routed through HQ USEUCOM and the Joint  Staff  before  being  released  by  the  Department  of  State.    The  State  Department release date must be at least 42 days before the actual change effective date.  In order to meet  this  Treaty  on  Conventional  Forces  in  Europe  (CFE)  time  line,  the  following procedures  must  be  followed  for  all  proposed  USAF  change  actions  occurring  in  the USEUCOM AoR (See Attachment 2, Table A2.1). 6.2.5.1.  AF/A1,  MAJCOMs,  FOAs  and  DRUs,  etc.  will  ensure  that  all  proposed organizational  change  actions  (e.g.  Organizational  Change  Requests  (OCRs), Program  Action Directives (PADs), etc.) are coordinated with  AF/A5XP  in  order to determine if such actions will require advance treaty notification. 6.2.5.2.  If  AF/A5XP  determines  that  an  advance  notification  is  required,  the following actions will be accomplished  and  timelines adhered to: 6.2.5.2.1.  Not later than 90 days prior to the desired effective date of the change action,  the  initiating  MAJCOM,  FOA,  DRU,  etc.  (hereafter  referred  to  as    “the initiating organization”) will contact HQ USAFE/A1 and HQ USAFE/A8PA and notify them of the desired change. 6.2.5.2.2.  Not later than 75 days prior to the desired effective date, the initiating organization will provide HQ USAFE/A8PA with all the required  information in order to be able to draft and submit the required treaty notification. 6.2.5.2.3.  Not  later  than  70  days  prior  to  the  desired  effective  date,  HQ USAFE/A8PA  will  draft  the  treaty  notification  and  submit  it  to  USEUCOM  for AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   11  coordination.  HQ USAFE A8PA will notify the initiating organization as soon as the treaty notification has been submitted for coordination. 6.2.5.2.4.  Immediately (but not later than five days) following the release of the of the official treaty  notification by the Department  of State, HQ USAFE/A8PA will  notify  the  initiating  organization  of  the  treaty  notification  release  date  and confirm  or  change  the  proposed  effective  date  for  the  change  action.    The effective  date  for  the  change  action  cannot  occur  until  at  least  42  days  after  the Department of State has released the treaty notification. 7.  Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  JOHNNY A. WEIDA, Maj Gen, USAF Asst DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements   12  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DODD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 9 January 2001  AFMS 10A0, Wing Commander’s Support Staff, 15 November 2005  AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010 AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011 AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997 AFI 16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 12 May 2007 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006 AFI 51-402, Weapons Review, 13 May 1994 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFDW—Air Force District of Washington AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMS—Air Force Manpower Standard AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive ANG—Air National Guard AoR—Area of Responsibility APL—Antipersonnel landmines BW—Biological Weapon BWC—Biological Weapons Convention CCW—Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons CCM—Convention on Cluster Munitions CFE—Conventional Armed Forces in Europe CRG—Compliance Review Group CSBM—Confidence and Security Builiding Measure CTBT—Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   13  CW—Chemical Weapon CWC—Chemical Weapons Convention DOD—Department of Defense DOE—Department of Energy DOS—Department of State DRU—Direct Reporting Unit ENMOD—Environmental Modification FSU—Former Soviet Union GLCM—Ground-Launched Cruise Missile HAF—Headquarters Air Force HB—Heavy Bomber IAEA—International Atomic Energy Agency ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile INF—Intermediate Nuclear Forces IRSS—Information and Resource Support System IWG—Implementation Working Group KT—Kiloton LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan LTBT—Limited Test Ban Treaty MAJCOM—Major Command MT—Megaton MTCR—Missile Technology Control Regime NAF—Numbered Air Force NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization NPT—Non-Proliferation Treaty NST—New START Treaty OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSCE—Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense PEM—Program Element Monitor PLNS—Pre- and Post-Launch Notification System PNET—Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty   14  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 RDT&E—Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation RV—Re-entry Vehicle SLV—Space Launch Vehicle SLBM—Submarine-Launched Ballistic Missile SME—Subject Matter Expert SORT—Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty START—Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty TTBT—Threshold Test Ban Treaty UK—United Kingdom US—United States USAF—United States Air Force USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe USD(AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics USEUCOM—United States European Command  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   15  Attachment 2 ARMS CONTROL TABLES Table A2.1.  Procedures/Timelines for Advance Notification of Organizational Changes in the USEUCOM AoR EVENT  Coordination on all proposed permanent changes in USAF organizations in the USEUCOM AoR Communication of all proposed organizational changes that require advanced treaty notification Provision of all required information for the draft treaty notification  Submission of the draft treaty notification for coordination  Communication of the release date of the treaty notification by the Department of State  ORIGIN  AF/A1, MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs, etc. TO  AF/A5XP MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs, etc. USAFE/A1 and USAFE/A8PA  MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs, etc. USAFE/A8PA USAFE/A8PA USEUCOM  USAFE/A8PA MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs, etc. SUSPENSE  As early as possible during the coordination stage of the proposed change  NLT 90 days prior to desired change effective date NLT 75 days prior to desired change effective date NLT 70 days prior to desired change effective date Immediately (but NLT  five days) following the treaty notification release date   16   AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 Table A2.2.  Summary of Arms Control and Nonproliferation Treaties and Agreements Applicable to the Air Force  The below list of treaties and agreements is provided for information purposes only and is not intended to be comprehensive. TREATY/AGREEMENT  DESCRIPTION New START Treaty (NST)  Ballistic Missile Launch Notification Agreement  Agreement on Measures to Reduce the Risk of Outbreak of Nuclear War  U.S.-Russian Federation (RF) treaty requires each side to reach the following central limits for strategic offensive nuclear arms by February 2018, or, if applicable, to remain below these numbers: 700 deployed ICBMs, SLBMs, and heavy bombers (HBs); 800 deployed and non-deployed ICBM launchers, SLBM launchers, and HBs, and; 1550 warheads on deployed ICBMs and SLBMs and warheads counted for HBs – by the terms of the treaty, one warhead per HB (regardless of loading).  Requires notification of launches of ICBMs and SLBMs by the U.S. or RF no less than 24 hours in advance.  Information includes planned date of launch, launch area, and area of impact.   U.S. and RF agree to immediately notify the other in event of accident or incident resulting in nuclear detonation, and detection of unidentified objects by, or interference of, early AF FACILITIES, PROGRAMS,  PLATFORMS AFFECTED All ICBMs, ICBM launchers, and HBs equipped for nuclear armaments are subject to the treaty. In addition, all facilities where these are based, stored, maintained, converted/eliminated, and tested are subject to inspection. Production facilities are declared under NST, but are not subject to inspection.  Impacts ICBM and certain SLV launches. Provide advance notification of missile launches in direction of RF.  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   17  warning systems.  Parties also agree to advance notification of planned missile launches travelling beyond national territory and in direction of other party.   Requires U.S. and RF to annually provide notification of one major strategic exercise which includes the participation of HB.  Notification must be made at least 14 days in advance.  Requirements of the 1990 agreement are incorporated into New START Protocol (Part 4, Section III, #5). Requires permanent elimination of all U.S. and RF ground-launched intermediate-range (1,000 - 5,500 km) and shorter-range (500 - 1,000 km) ballistic missiles and cruise missiles. Prohibits nuclear explosions in the atmosphere, outer space, or underwater. Prohibits U.S. or RF from underground testing of nuclear weapons with a yield greater than 150 KT. Prohibits any nuclear explosion by the U.S. or RF exceeding a yield of 150 KT, any group explosion exceeding a yield of 150 KT that will not permit the identification and determination of the yield of each individual explosion in the group, or any group explosion with an aggregate yield of more than 1.5 MT. Recognizes five nuclear Impacts HB exercises.   Eliminated BGM-109G (GLCM). Requires notification of some research and development launches that meet specified criteria. N/A Inspections at Nevada National Security Site (with DOE). N/A See “NPT Safeguards Major Strategic Exercise Notification Agreement  Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Limited Test Ban Treaty (LTBT) Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT) Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty (PNET) Nuclear Non-Proliferation AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 Agreement” and “NPT Additional Protocol” below.    18  Treaty (NPT) weapon states (U.S., RF, UK, France, China); all other States Parties are non-nuclear weapon states.  Obligates nuclear weapon states not to transfer nuclear weapons to non-nuclear weapon states or to assist these states in manufacturing or otherwise acquiring nuclear weapons. All state parties to the treaty agree, however, to take steps to ensure that all NPT non-nuclear weapon states can utilize “nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.” Non-nuclear weapon states also agree to accept safeguards to prevent the diversion of nuclear materials for illegal nuclear weapon programs. NPT Safeguards Agreement   Agreement negotiated with NPT Additional Protocol the IAEA permitting the international agency to verify a state’s declared types, quantities, and locations of nuclear material.  The Additional Protocol, developed following the discovery of Iraq’s illicit nuclear weapons program after the first Gulf War, represents a follow-on agreement to a state’s safeguards agreement.  It grants the IAEA inspection rights to investigate potential discrepancies, undeclared stockpiles, and/or covert efforts to develop nuclear weapons.  The U.S. is a nuclear weapon state under the NPT.  The U.S.-IAEA safeguards agreement includes a “national security exclusion” – all U.S. military sites, to include all Air Force sites, are not subject to safeguards.   As with IAEA safeguards, the Additional Protocol includes a “national security exclusion” for all U.S. military sites.  Air Force sites are not subject to IAEA inspection.  U.S. civilian nuclear sites, however, are subject to inspection.  As such, there is a risk that inspections may occur at (1) sites that are near USAF facilities or (2) sites where the USAF AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   19  Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) BW Trilateral Agreement Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) Treaty The U.S. signed an Additional Protocol with the IAEA to demonstrate its commitment to the NPT and its support of the increased transparency provided for by the agreement. Multilateral convention prohibiting development, stockpiling, acquisition, or retaining of: (1) microbial or other biological agents or toxins that have no justification for prophylactic, protective or other peaceful purposes and, (2) weapons, equipment, or means to deliver such agents or toxins for hostile purposes or in armed conflict. U.S./UK/RF joint statement designed to alleviate U.S./UK concerns on Soviet Union/RF noncompliance with the BWC. Multilateral convention banning the production, development, possession, transfer, and use of chemical weapons by the signatories. Parties must also destroy all chemical stockpiles and CW production facilities. Reduces conventional forces of 30 NATO and former Warsaw Pact countries to eliminate the capability to launch a surprise attack and to initiate large-scale offensive action in Europe.  Restricts the amount of military has active programs or other equities.  MAJCOMs are responsible for conducting Security Vulnerability Assessments for any applicable AF facilities or programs.   Facilities, if visitation protocols are developed and implemented.  Provide information on USAF biological defense programs for annual Confidence Building Measures submission to the UN. Provide response to annual Congressional Treaty Chemical and Biological Weapons Compliance Review Group data call for chemical and biological defense programs and research. Facility inspections of sites identified in United Nations BWC confidence-building declarations. Air Force facilities are not subject to routine inspections, except in cases where recovered weapons are being temporarily stored awaiting destruction.   All Air Force facilities are subject to a potential challenge inspection.  Numerical limits on Europe-located combat aircraft and accounting for combat support helicopters.  USAFE bases, units and equipment are subject to inspections by representatives from other participating States.   20  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 CFE 1A Agreement Vienna Document 2011 (VDoc 11) Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons (CCW) Open Skies Treaty equipment a group of states’ parties could concentrate in designated sections of Europe.  Includes a detailed verification regime.  Agreement on reductions in manpower levels in Europe. Numerical limits on military manpower in Europe. Politically-binding Confidence and Security Building Measure (CSBM) among participating States of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).  Limits the number and scope of large-scale military activities. Requires military information exchange and prior notification of exercises. Convention consisting of  a series of five (5) Protocols addressing non-detectable fragment weapons;  landmines/booby traps and other devices;  incendiary weapons; blinding lasers; and explosive remnants of war. Agreement between NATO and former Warsaw Pact countries to conduct and submit to aerial observation flights over their territory on the basis of annual quotas meant to provide for equitable coverage and Numerical limits on military manpower in Europe. USAFE must track assets, such as combat aircraft and helicopters, and provide reports consistent with required information exchanges. Certain USAFE bases are subject to inspections and evaluations by representatives from other participating States. U.S. is party to the Convention and the five existing Protocols. USAF APLs comply with CCW requirements and are equipped with self-destruct and self-deactivation mechanisms. DoD policy is that U.S. will not develop lasers expressly intended for blinding.  Lasers that are part of USAF systems comply with the CCW Protocol on blinding laser weapons. Provide dedicated observation aircraft and equip them with treaty-specified sensors. Support aircraft operations during active Open Skies mission overflights of foreign states parties. Provide logistical AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011   21  Outer Space Treaty Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects Environmental Modification (ENMOD) Convention increased transparency of military activities. Prohibits signatories from placing nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction in outer space and limits use of the Moon and other celestial bodies to peaceful purposes. Signatories cannot make any claims of sovereignty over the Moon or any other celestial object. States notify the United Nations of objects launched into space.  Information provided within the notification includes: the name of the launching State; the object designator; the date and territory of the launch; basic orbital parameters; and the general function of the object.  Information is made publicly available through UN-maintained online index. State parties accept liability should an object they launch into space fall out of orbit and cause damage “on the surface of the Earth or to aircraft in flight.”  Exceptions exist where “gross negligence” is found on behalf of a party claiming damages.  Prohibits use of environmental modification techniques having widespread, long-lasting or severe effects as the means support for missions flown by foreign states parties over the U.S.  Provide media processing capability. U.S. shares data collected by USAF satellites with relevance to the safety of foreign astronauts.     Notification of launches of USAF satellites into space.  Pending review of claim, United States would likely accept liability for relevant damages caused should an USAF satellite fall out of orbit and cause damage. N/A   22  AFI16-601  18 FEBRUARY 2011 of destruction, damage, or injury to any other party, for military purposes. Provides export policy guidelines meant to limit the spread of missiles and unmanned delivery systems capable of carrying at least a 500 kilogram payload traveling at least 300 kilometers. State parties to politically binding agreement agree to “exchange pre-launch notifications on their Ballistic Missile and Space Launch Vehicle launches and test flights.” Sale of USAF missiles and unmanned delivery systems captured under treaty are restricted. AF is responsible for notification of applicable DoD space launches as well as ICBM launches. The AF also contributes to the annual report sent to other participating states.   Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Hague Code of Conduct Against Ballistic Missile Proliferation    