BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-216 27 JULY 2016 Operations  EVACUATION OF U.S. CITIZENS AND DESIGNATED ALIENS FROM THREATENED AREAS ABROAD COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  AF/A1XOR  Supersedes:  AFI 10-216, 1 April 2000  Certified by: AF/A1X  (Michelle Lowe Solis) Pages: 10 This  instruction  implements  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  3025.14,  Evacuation  of US Citizens and Designated Aliens from Threatened Areas Abroad,  Air  Force Policy  Directive (AFPD)  10-2,  Readiness  and  supports  AFPD  36-38,  Personnel  Readiness  Reporting  and Accountability,  and  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  36-3803,  Personnel  Accountability  in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies. It establishes guidance and assigns responsibilities  for  evacuation  of  Air  Force  members,  dependents,  other  U.S.  citizens  and designated aliens from threatened areas abroad or in anticipation of, or in response to any natural or man-made disaster.  It requires all commanders to develop plans for evacuating people from their installations, as well as for receiving  and repatriating evacuees. This instruction sets  forth evacuation  policy  for  Regular  Air  Force  (RegAF),  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR)  and  Air  National Guard (ANG) personnel.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director  of  the  Air  National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower, Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for  the  evacuation  of  U.S.  citizens and  designated  aliens  from  threatened  areas  abroad.    This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at any  level;  all  supplements  must  be  approved  by  the  Human  Resource  Management  Strategic Board  (HSB)  prior  to  certification  and  approval.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  and  T-3”)  number  following  the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the    2 AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Ensure  all  records  created  as  a  result  of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management  of  Records,  and disposed of in  accordance with  the  Air  Force Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS). This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by Title 5 United States Code (USC) Section 552a, The Privacy Act of 1974.  The authorities to collect or maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  the  publication  are  10  USC  §  8013,  Secretary  of  the  Air Force;  and  Executive  Order  9397,  Numbering  System  for  Federal  Accounts  Relating  to Individual Persons, as amended.  The applicable SORN, F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), at: http://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNsSearchResults/tabid/7541/Category/277/Default.aspx Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifying Information (PII) when submitting or sending nominations, applications or other documents to  DoD agencies through  government internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning. available is SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include:  change title from  Evacuating and Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other U.S.  Noncombatants  to  Evacuation  of  Noncombatants  and  Designated  Aliens  from  Threatened Areas  Abroad;  updates  office  symbols,  adds  guidance  on  Continental  United  States  (CONUS) evacuation. AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 3 Chapter 1 RESPONSIBILITIES 1.1.  Overview.  The  Air  Force  will  support  evacuation  and  repatriation  operations,  as  well  as assigned Safe Haven locations.  This instruction establishes the following responsibilities for Air Force organizations. 1.1.1.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3/5): 1.1.1.1.  Is the Air Force office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this program. 1.1.2.  Ensures overall command, control and status reporting of evacuation operations. 1.1.3.  Appoints a member to  the Washington  Liaison Group to  coordinate the execution of evacuation responsibilities. 1.1.4.  Measures  and  reports  on  the  readiness  of  military  forces  and  the  supporting infrastructure to execute evacuations. 1.1.5.  Provides  air  transportation,  including  theater,  strategic,  and  intra-continental  U.S.  as well as aeromedical evacuation IAW the mission and priorities assigned by USTRANSCOM. 1.1.6.  Responsible for evacuation operations and repatriation planning in coordination with Joint Staff and Geographic/Combatant Commands. 1.2.  The  Director  of  Plans  and  Integration  (AF/A1X),  Force  Support  Organization  and Readiness (AF/A1XO): 1.2.1.  Is the AF/A1 OPR for evacuation operations. 1.2.2.  Provides guidance on accounting, tracking, and reporting of personnel throughout the evacuation process. 1.2.3.  Monitors  accountability  and  visibility  of  all  AF  personnel  (military  and  civilian) during  all  phases  of  evacuation  to  include  evacuation  to  a  Safe  Haven,  IAW  Geographical Combatant Commander evacuation plans and policies. 1.2.4.  Provides  status  of  Force  Support  reception  and  beddown  capabilities  to  support evacuation  operations, to Geographical Combatant Commander evacuation plans and policies. i.e.,  providing  meals  and temporary lodging,  according 1.3.  The  Director  of  Civilian  Force  Management  (AF/A1C)  provides  human  resource guidance  and  entitlement/compensation  information  to/for  Air  Force  civilians  relating  to evacuation operations. 1.4.  The  Director  of  Military  Force  Management  Policy  (AF/A1P)  provides  personnel program  and  policy  guidance  and  entitlement/compensation  information  to/for  Air  Force members/families, i.  e., STOP MOVEMENT. 1.5.  The Director of Services, Force Sustainment Division (AF/A1S) will: 1.5.1.  Provide  guidance  on  assistance  and  support  to  Air  Force  Family  members  (military and civilian). 4 AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 1.5.2.  Ensure  required  Force  Support  Services/Sustainment  capabilities/programs  are  in-place  for  evacuation  reception  and  repatriation  operations,  according  to  Geographical Combatant Commander evacuation plans and policies. 1.6.  The Director of Civil Engineers (AF/A4C) will: 1.6.1.  Provide  guidance  for  contingency  response  planning  that  includes  evacuation considerations. 1.7.  The Director of Logistics (AF/A4L): 1.7.1.  Is responsible for transportation of personnel/equipment for evacuation operations. 1.7.2.  Ensures  installation  reception  and  support  plans  adequately  identify  support  for evacuation, reception and repatriation plans. 1.8.  The  Director  of  Personnel  Operations  (AFPC/DP2)  is  responsible  for:  Tracking, accounting, reporting, and ensuring follow-up support is provided. (T-1) 1.9.  The Director of Airmen and Family Care (AFPC/DPF): 1.9.1.  Is  responsible,  through  Airmen  and  Family  Readiness  Centers  (A&FRC),  for contacting, reporting, and coordinating information and referral for required support. (T-1) 1.9.2.  Is  responsible  for  the  collection,  update,  and  transmittal  of  DD  Form  2585, Repatriation Processing Center Processing Sheet data.  (T-1) 1.10.  The Director of Operations, Air Force Services Activity (AFSVA/SVO) is responsible for:  Executing  Force  Support  Services/Sustainment  capabilities/programs  for  evacuation operations.  (T-1) 1.11.  Major Command Director of Operations (MAJCOM/A3/5).  MAJCOM A3/5s will: 1.11.1.  Prepare plans to support DoDD 3025.14, Evacuation of US Citizens and Designated Aliens  from  Threatened  Areas  Abroad,  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  3001.02,  Personnel Accountability  in  Conjunction  with  Natural  or  Manmade  Disasters,  and  Joint  Publication (JP) 3-68, Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO) and this AFI. (T-0) 1.11.2.  Ensure  all  subordinate  commanders/units  prepare  evacuation,  reception,  and repatriation plans. 1.11.3.  Utilize  the  Automated  Repatriation  Reporting  System  (ARRS)  or  NEO  Tracking System (NTS) to identify and track evacuees. 1.12.  Installation Commanders (CONUS or non-foreign area (e.  g., Hawaii, Alaska, etc.)) (Wing Plans) will: 1.12.1.  Determine the need for an evacuation and issue such orders considered necessary to ensure the safety, health, and well-being of personnel and their family members.  (T-1) 1.12.2.  Tailor  evacuation  order  to  meet  the  specific  circumstances.    NOTE:    Evacuation orders must have a beginning and projected end date.  (T-1) 1.12.3.  When  possible,  evacuation  orders  will  be  coordinated  with  tenant  units  on  the installation.  (T-1) AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 5 1.12.4.  Evacuation orders are limited to specific areas or counties in a local area affected by a  natural  disaster,  e.g.,  tornado,  hurricane,  floods,  earthquakes,  etc.,  and  to  specific  civilian personnel and family members affected by such natural disasters. 1.12.5.  Ensure  military  members  are  only  allowed  to  draw  evacuation  benefits  if  they  are escorting others being evacuated.  (T-1) 1.12.6.  Place military members on TDY or PCS orders, if members are required to move out of a disaster area.  NOTE:  Verbal evacuation orders are authorized but must be confirmed in writing as soon as possible.  (T-1) 1.12.7.  Prepare plans to support DoDD 3025.14, Evacuation of US Citizens and Designated Aliens  from  Threatened  Areas  Abroad,  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  3001.02,  Personnel Accountability  in  Conjunction  with  Natural  or  Manmade  Disasters,  and  Joint  Publication (JP) 3-68, Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO) and this AFI.  (T-0) 1.13.  Non-Air  Force  Organizations.  Refer to JP 3-68, Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO), for responsibilities of non-Air Force organizations. (T-0) 6 AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 Chapter 2 GENERAL PLANS AND POLICIES FOR EVACUATING, RECEIVING AND REPATRIATING NONCOMBATANTS 2.1.  Mission  of  NEO.  NEO  is  defined  in  JP  3-68,  Noncombatant  Evacuation  Operations,  an operation whereby noncombatant evacuees are evacuated from  a threatened area abroad, which includes areas  facing  actual  or potential danger from natural  or manmade disaster, civil  unrest, imminent  or  actual  terrorist  activities,  hostilities,  and  similar  circumstances,  that  is  carried  out with  the  assistance  of  the  Department  of  Defense.    As  used  by  Department  of  State  (DoS),  a NEO is an ordered departure from a threatened area abroad that is carried out with the assistance of DoD, as opposed to ordered departures that do not require DoD assistance, but are carried out using commercial  or chartered transportation.  DoS  may declare a NEO based on the nature of the threat  or the lack of availability of alternative forms  of transportation.  Diplomatic or other considerations may make the use of the term “NEO” inadvisable and require the use of the terms for  the  operation  instead.    The  U.S.  Government  will  consider  evacuating  HN  and  OCNs  on  a case-by-case,  space  available/reimbursable  basis.    Although  normally  considered  in  connection with hostile action, evacuation may also be conducted in anticipation of, or in response to, any natural  or  man-made  disaster.    Due  to  the  nature  of  NEOs,  which  may  require  a  broad  U.S. Government  agency  approach,  interagency  coordination  needs  to  be  established  early  in  the planning of the NEO, preferably before the crisis begins, between DoS, DoD, and any other U.S. Government  agencies,  if  involved,  to  ensure  success.    Appropriate  DoD,  Joint  Staff,  and  Air Force offices will be contacted prior to Service-level interagency coordination. 2.2.  Repatriation.  Repatriation  is  the  procedures  through  which  US  citizens  are  officially processed back into the US following evacuation from overseas.  Repatriation is not a part of, but subsequent  to  a  NEO.    Commander,  US  Northern  Command  (CDRUSNORTHCOM),  and Commander,  US  Pacific  Command  (CDRUSPACOM)  are  identified  as  offices  of  primary responsibility for repatriation.  CDRUSNORTHCOM is responsible for receiving evacuees in the continental  US,  Alaska,  and  the  US  territories  within  the  Caribbean  during  repatriation.  CDRUSPACOM  is  responsible  for  receiving  evacuees  in  Hawaii  and  US  territories  within  the Pacific during repatriation.  Air Force installations within these combatant commands (CCMDs) will develop and maintain a plan for use during repatriation as necessary.  Installations will use the DoD Form 2585 as directed. (T-1) Instructions for completion are included on the form. 2.3.  Evacuation Planning and Processing.  In the CONUS, emphasis should be on evacuations for  natural  and  man-made  disasters.    In  overseas  areas,  include  evacuation  situations  involving political or military conflict.  Ensure accountability of personnel as they depart and arrive at the evacuation location, and develop procedures to  provide this information  to higher headquarters on request. 2.3.1.  In cases where the natural or man-made disaster has already occurred, the installation commander  will  issue  an  evacuation  order  only  if  there  remains  a  continuing,  significant threat to the safety or health of a significant percentage of those assigned to the installation or their immediate families, and funds are available to support evacuation entitlements (funding should  not  impact  decisions  to  evacuate).    Additionally,  decisions  on  evacuations  must ensure it does not put members at further risk. AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 7 2.3.2.  Evacuation orders are not to be used solely to create an entitlement to disaster-related benefits.    Post-disaster,  commanders  may  consider  the  availability  of  other  sources  of assistance, e.g., Red Cross, Air Force Aid Society, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), private insurance and government personnel claims assistance, before ordering an evacuation.    Evacuation  benefits  may  be  used  only  to  pay  for  evacuation-related  costs  not covered by other sources of federal funding. 2.3.3.  Ensure evacuees understand they are not entitled to receive payments from more than one federal source for the same disaster-related expense.  For example, if an evacuee receives FEMA  relocation  assistance  to  pay  for  emergency  lodging,  that  lodging  assistance  may  be deducted from any evacuation lodging assistance provided by the Air Force.  Ensure that all requests  for  payment  submitted  by  evacuated  military  family  members  and/or  civilian employees  contain  a  statement  that  they  understand  they  are  not  entitled  to  dual  federal payments  for  the  same  disaster-related  expenses;  and  should  they  receive  payments  from another federal agency, such payments will be deducted from any payments made by the Air Force for the same expense. in  CONUS  and 2.4.  Reception  Plans  and  Assistance in  Temporary  Safe  Haven Overseas.  Commanders overseas, and those at ports of entry and other CONUS locations, must be ready to respond to requests for help from evacuees.  Installations will coordinate with their MAJCOMs/Air  Component  to  determine  their  reception/repatriation  role.    MAJCOMs  will coordinate  with  NORTHCOM/J3/5  and  the  appropriate  Air  Component  to  ensure  installations plan for reception/repatriation.  Coordination with other government agencies (such as the DoS, Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  and  applicable  state  offices)  may  be  required  to develop reception/repatriation procedures.  Appropriate DoD, Joint Staff, and Air Force offices will be contacted prior to Service-level interagency coordination.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY, SES, SAF/MR Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary  (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 8 AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3025.14, Evacuation of U.S. Citizens and Designated Aliens from Threatened Areas Abroad, 26 February 2013 The Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR) Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural or Manmade Disasters, 3 May 2010 Joint Publication 3-68, Noncombatant Evacuation Operations, 18 November 2015 AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary (BAS&E) Site Planning, 27 August 2015 AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management, 19 April 2016 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies, 21 December 2010 AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, 5 August 2005 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Prescribed Forms DD Form 2585, Repatriation Processing Center Processing Sheet (1 September 2014) Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication (22 Sep 2009) Abbreviations and Acronyms AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFMAN—Air Force Manual ARRS—Automated Repatriation Reporting System CCMD—Combatant Command CONUS—Continental United States DD Form—Department of Defense Form DoD—Department of Defense DODDS—Department of Defense Dependents Schools DoS—Department of State FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency HN—Host Nation MAJCOM—Major Command AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 9 NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operation NTS—NEO Tracking System OCN—Other Country National OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PCS—Permanent Change of Station Terms Abroad—In  a  foreign  area;  outside  the  United  States,  its  territories,  or  possessions.  (DoDD 3025.14) Authorized  Departure—Voluntary  departure  of  command-sponsored  military  dependents, nonessential  DoD  civilian  employees  and  their  families,  families  of  essential  DoD  civilian employees,  and  DoDDS  staff  and  faculty  to  an  announced  safe  haven  is  encouraged  and authorized  at  government  expense,  with  return  also  at  government  expense.  These  government authorized expenses do not apply to local U.S. citizens who do not have service agreements for return transportation to the United States at government expense. (JP 3-68) Departure— whether authorized or ordered; may or may not include transportation provided or arranged by the U.S. Government; includes but is not limited to NEO.  (DoDD 3025.14) Evacuation—Withdrawal from a threatened area.  Evacuation normally consists of four phases (Departure,  Safe  Haven  reception,  Safe  Haven  support  and  Return  to  the  Evacuated  Area).  (DoDD 3025.14) Noncombatant—U.S. citizens who may be ordered to evacuate by competent authority include: Civilian employees- of U.S. Government agencies and their dependents, except civilian employees of U.S. Government agencies and their dependents who are legal residents in the country concerned but have expressed the willingness to be evacuated. Military personnel-of the U.S. Military Services specifically designated for evacuation as noncombatants. Dependents- of members of the U.S. Military Services.  U.S. (and non-U.S.) -citizens who may be authorized or assisted in evacuation (but not necessarily ordered to evacuate) by competent authority include: Civilian  employees  of  U.S.  Government  agencies  and  their  dependents—  who  are legal  residents  in  the  country  concerned,  but  have  expressed  the  willingness  to  be evacuated. Private  U.S.  citizens  and  their  dependents—(Note:  Private  U.S.  citizens  cannot  be ordered to evacuate.) Military personnel—and dependents of members of the U.S. Armed Forces outlined in subparagraph a (3) of DoDD 3025.14, short of an ordered evacuation. Designated  others—  including  dependents  of  civilian  employees  of  U.S.  Government agencies and their dependents, except civilian employees of U.S. Government agencies and  their  dependents,  who  are  legal  residents  in  the  country  concerned,  but  have 10 AFI10-216  27 JULY 2016 expressed  the  willingness  to  be  evacuated;  military  personnel  of  the  U.S.  Military Services  specifically  designated  for  evacuation  as  noncombatants;  and  dependents  of members of the U.S. Military Services, as prescribed by DoS.  (DoDD 3025.14) NEO— As used by DoS, an ordered departure from a threatened area abroad that is carried out with the assistance of DoD (as opposed to ordered departures that do not require DoD assistance but are carried out using commercial or chartered transportation). DoS may declare a NEO based on the nature of the threat or the lack of availability of alternative forms of transportation.  It  is important  to  note  that  diplomatic  or  other  considerations  may  make  use  of  certain  terms (such as “NEO”) inadvisable and require the use of other terms instead. (DoDD 3025.14) Ordered  Departure—Mandatory  departure  of  some  or  all  categories  of  personnel  and dependents  (such  as  military  dependents,  nonessential  DoD  civilian  employees  and  their families,  families  of  essential  DoD  civilian  employees,  and  DoDDS  staff  and  faculty)  to designated safe havens is directed by DoS, with  implementation of the theater evacuation plan. Historically,  DoS  accomplishes  most  ordered  evacuations  using  commercial  transportation (scheduled or chartered), without the use of military personnel or assistance. However, DoS may request a DoD-assisted NEO (using DoD organic or chartered transportation assets) based on the nature of the threat or the lack of availability of alternative forms of transportation. (JP 3-68) Repatriation— Procedure whereby American citizens and their families are officially processed back  into  the  United  States  subsequent  to  an  evacuation.    Evacuees  are  also  provided  various services  to  ensure  their  well-being  and  onward  movement  to  their  final  destination.    (DoDD 3025.14) Safe  Haven—  Designated  area(s)  to  which  noncombatants  under  the  U.S.  Government’s responsibility  may  be  evacuated  during  an  emergency.  A  location  within  or  outside  the  United States to which noncombatants are authorized to travel for the purpose of temporarily remaining there until  they  are authorized to  return to the location from  which evacuated, or until  they are authorized  to  travel  to  their  final  destination.  Safe  Havens  are  normally  designated  by  DoS,  in coordination with DoD. (DoDD 3025.14) STOP  MOVEMENT—DoD  issues  an  order  to  stop  forward  movement  of  military  members, their  dependents,  nonessential  DoD  civilian  employees  and  their  families,  families  of  essential DoD civilian employees, and DoDDS staff and faculty. (JP 3-68) Threatened Areas— Includes areas facing actual or potential danger from natural or manmade disaster, civil unrest, imminent or actual terrorist activities, hostilities, and similar circumstances, as declared by competent authority.  (DoDD 3025.14)  