 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-125 28 MARCH 2012 Operations Support AFRICAN COOPERATION  (AFR CO-OP) FUND  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   SAF/IARA   Certified by: SAF/IA  (Heidi H. Grant) Pages: 8   This  instruction  implements  AFPD  16-1,  International  Affairs.    Activities  which  use  the  AFR CO-OP Fund to support African cooperation must follow this instruction which carries out Title 10,  U.S.  Code  Section  1050a.    This  instruction  applies  to  Air  Force  active  duty,  guard  and reserve  forces.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information Management  System located  at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  Send  all  recommended  changes  or comments  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR  (SAF/IARA)  through  appropriate  channels,  using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS)   2  AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012 Chapter 1 AFR CO-OP FUND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 1.1.  Authority.  Under  Title 10, U.S.  Code Section 1050a, the Secretary of the Air  Force may pay  the  travel,  subsistence  and  special  compensation  for  officers,  civilians  and  students  of African countries and other expenses necessary for African cooperation. Pursuant to that section, and under this AFI, the Secretary establishes a fund, known as the AFR CO-OP Fund. 1.2.  Program  Management.  The  Deputy  Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  International Affairs (SAF/IA) develops policy and provides certification of funds for AFR CO-OP purposes. 1.2.1.  The  AFRICOM  Division  Chief  (SAF/IARA),  administers  the  AFR  CO-OP  Fund, guides parts of the program assigned to HQ USAF and non-theater commands, and advocates the program in all phases of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System. 1.2.2.  Send correspondence regarding the AFR CO-OP Fund to SAF/IARA, 1080 Air Force Pentagon, to: SAF.IARA.Workflow@pentagon.af.mil 20330-1080. Washington DC  Send e-mails 1.2.3.  The Chief, Programming and Resources Division (SAF/IAGR), consolidates SAF/IA budget  and  programming,  requirements,  including  the  AFR  CO-OP    inputs  received  from SAF/IARA and submits to Headquarters Air Force Resource Management (HAF/RM). 1.2.4.  HAF/RM submits requirements of the AFR CO-OP program to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller, Budget (SAF/FMB) for inclusion in the annual Air Force Budget. 1.2.5.  The  Commander,  Air  Forces  Africa,  under  SAF/IARA’s  guidance,  administers  the part of the AFR CO-OP program that SAF/IA assigns. 1.2.6.  The  Dean  of  Faculty,  US  Air  Force  Academy,  under  SAF/IARA’s  guidance, administers the part of the AFR CO-OP program that SAF/IA assigns. AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012   3  Chapter 2 AFR CO-OP FUND USAGE 2.1.  Purpose.  The AFR CO-OP  Fund shall be used to  further the standing and prestige of the United States (US)  and the US Air Force (USAF) with African countries/air forces by providing the  financial  means  whereby  cooperation  between  the  US  and  Africa  may  be  achieved  and enhanced.    For  purposes  of  this  instruction,  Africa  is  defined  as  the  portion  of  the  continent within the area of responsibility assigned to AFRICOM. 2.2.  Unauthorized Uses.  Do not use the AFR CO-OP Fund for: 2.2.1.  Funding  official  travel  to  replace  or  supplement  money  allotted  to  Foreign  Military Sales (FMS) cases, programs funded by FMS surcharge money, or other security assistance programs. 2.2.2.  Materials or services normally charged to other USAF funds. 2.2.3.  Expenses to circumvent or supplement other legal provisions. 2.2.4.  Any forms of greeting cards or business cards. 2.2.5.  Gifts intended as repayment for courtesies shown or hospitality received. 2.2.6.  Gratuities or allowances (except standard tipping practices). 2.2.7.  Paying for unit or individual training programs or courses for US personnel. 2.2.8.  Official functions that do not encourage cooperation with African countries. 2.2.9.  Expenses  for  personal  items,  for  entertaining  US  officials,  or  for  personal  social amenities, to include membership fees and dues. 2.2.10.  Telephone calls (except for official business). 2.2.11.  Leisure activities or entertainment requested by authorized guests. 2.3.  Authorized  Uses.  The  highest  payback  for  US  Air  Force  and  government  interests  are initiatives  in  operations,  logistics,  and  safety.    Initiatives  involving  public  affairs,  legal  and medical  exchanges  are  also  important  in  military-to-military  relations  and  should  take precedence over non-operational initiatives.  Use AFR CO-OP Fund for: 2.3.1.  Exchanges,  orientations,  or  visits  to  familiarize  US  and  partner  nation  military  and civilian  leaders  with  counterpart  organizations,  leaders,  subject  matter  experts,  and distinguished visitors. 2.3.2.  Receptions, lunches, dinners, and cultural events that build relations with appropriate African officers, civilians, or students. 2.3.3.  Official mementos and items  exchanged according to  US  and African customs.  The aggregate  cost  of  mementos  and  gifts  presented  to  authorized  recipients  shall  not  exceed $350  or  the  maximum  value  allowed  by  US  law  and  Department  of  Defense  and  USAF policy. 2.3.4.  Translation  or  interpreter  services  supporting  goals  of  African  cooperation  programs and initiatives funded with the AFR CO-OP Fund.   4  AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012 2.3.5.  Official  travel  and  subsistence  for  African  officers,  civilians  or  students  while  they visit  the  US  or  US  installations,  or  activities  overseas  in  accordance  with  the  Joint  Federal Travel Regulations and Joint Travel Regulations. 2.3.6.  Travel  and  subsistence  for  USAF  representatives  in  the  US  or  overseas  who  are traveling  for  the  purpose  of  fostering  cooperation  with  African  countries.    When  US personnel escort an official party, use only the minimum number required. AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012   5  Chapter 3 PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS  3.1.  Annual  Budget  Request.  SAF/IARA  issues  a  one-year  budget  request  in  March  of  each year to potential users. SAF/IARA develops the annual budget from the responses to this request, and  then  forwards  it  through  SAF/IAGR  to  HAF/RM,  which  consolidates  HAF  resource requirements and represents the HAF within the Air Force Corporate Structure. 3.2.  Supplemental Certification of funds for use as AFR CO-OP.  On request of the agency or  organization  possessing  O&M  funds  SAF/IA  may  approve  the  allocation  of  supplemental AFR  CO-OP  authority  for  specific  requirements  beyond  the  annual  AFR  CO-OP  program.  Funding for supplemental AFR CO-OP authority requirements may be sourced from other O&M funds  in  accordance  with  applicable  DoD  and  AF  guidance.    An  agency  or  organization requesting AFR CO-OP authority must: 3.2.1.  Present the request to SAF/IA in writing, stating the amount of funds it requires to be designated as AFR CO-OP, along with a detailed explanation of how the funds would further the  cause  of  African  Cooperation,  and  certification  that  the  funds  would  be  spent  in accordance with the governing AFI.  Send the request to the addresses listed in section 1.2.2. of this AFI. 3.2.2.  If the request is found appropriate, written authorization, noting the amount of funds spendable as AFR CO-OP, shall be issued by SAF/IA or Assistant SAF/IA (SAF/AIA) only. 3.3.  Approving  Programs.  SAF/IARA  ensures  all  proposals  for  AFR  CO-OP  funding  follow this  instruction  and  contribute  to  regional  cooperation  and  USAF  strategy.    After  SAF/IARA approves  a  request  in  concept,  it  informs  the  requesting  agency,  including  any  required  and/or recommended changes and the amount of funding available. 3.4.  Support Activities.  The requester and the project officer is responsible for public-relations activities,  itineraries,  transportation,  and  billeting.    Visit  authorizations  for  foreign  visitors  to USAF  installations  must  be  requested  from  SAF/IAPD  at  least  30  days  prior  to  visit  dates.  Follow the Foreign Clearance Guide whenever US personnel visit foreign locations. 3.5.  Program  Closeout.  When  the  program  is  complete,  responsible  personnel  at  the organization utilizing the funds shall do the following: 3.5.1.  Write a detailed report regarding the utilization of the funds and forward that report to SAF/IARA.  Maintain copies of all receipts and records as required by AFMAN 33-363. 3.5.2.  Following  each  AFR  CO-OP  initiative,  an  after-action  report  shall  be  completed, including  comments  concerning  the  effectiveness  of  the  initiative  in  meeting  its  stated purpose  and  the  goals  of  the  specific  agency  program.    Include  any  recommendations  for follow-on initiatives needed to further these objectives. Forward copies of these reports to all concerned agencies and to SAF/IARA.      6  AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012 3.6.  Internal Accounting.  SAF/IARA provides programming inputs to SAF/IAGR and for the execution  of  the  annual  AFR  CO-OP  budget.    Consequently,  the  entities  to  which  SAF/IARA distributes the funds shall, at the end of each month in which the AFR CO-OP Funds are utilized by  the  above  entities,  provide  a  spreadsheet  to  SAF/IARA  noting:  (1)  original  FY  funding allotment, (2) details of monthly expenditures from 1 October onward, (3) remaining balances at the end of each month. AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012   7  Chapter 4 FUNDING AND ACCOUNTING 4.1.  Funding  Distribution.  HAF/RM  distributes  funds  by  issuing  an  Operating  Budget Authority  to  each  installation  with  recurring  requirements.    SAF/IA  may  transfer  funds  to another  organization  from  the  AFR  CO-OP  Fund.    Additionally,  SAF/IA  can  orchestrate  a transfer of O&M funds from other organizations to SAF/IA for execution through the AFR CO-OP Program Element. 4.2.  Approving and Accounting for Funds. 4.2.1.  An agency must  not  obligate more than the amount of budget  authority received per initiative without prior written approval from HAF/RM. 4.2.2.  Each  accounting  and  finance  office  must  account  for  obligations  by  the  appropriate Air  Force  Element  of  Expense  and  Investment  Code  (EEIC).    File  temporary  duty  and  per diem claims under 40X EEICs.  Charge expenses for official entertainment or mementos to the applicable object class. 4.2.3.  Imprest cashier or paying agents are liable to SAF/IA for funds obligated or accepted and  must  perform  cash  accountability  in  accordance  with  DOD  Financial  Management Regulation  (DoDFMR)  7000.14-R,  volume  5:  Disburing  Policy.    Each  accounting  and finance office must account for obligations by the appropriate Air Force Element. 4.2.4.  An  agency  must  maintain  a  copy  of  each  relevant  document,  e.g.,  TDY  order, vouchers, purchase orders, paying agent orders, and its respective accounting documentation as required by AFMAN 33-363.  HEIDI H. GRANT Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force International Affairs   8  AFI16-125  28 MARCH 2012 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, 2 November 2009 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 22 November 2011 DoDFMR 7000.14 vol 5, August 2010 Adopted Forms AF From 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 Acronyms and Abbreviaions AF—Air Force AFAFRICA—Air Forces Africa AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFR CO—OP – African Cooperation Fund DoD—Department of Defence DODFMR—DoD Financial Management Regulation EEIC—Air Force Element of Expense and Investment Code FY—Fiscal Year HAF—Headquarters Air Force HAF/RM—Headquarters Air Force Resource Management JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation JTR—Joint Travel Regulation O&M—Operation and Maintenance Funds SAF/FMB—Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller, Budget SAF/IA—Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force International Affairs SAF/IARA—AFRICOM Division Chief TDY—Temporary Duty USAFA—US Air Force Academy  