Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-10031 AUGUST 1996Certified current 4 SEPTEMBER 2009OperationsUSE OF AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS FORNON-GOVERNMENT BUSINESS BY CIVIL AIRCARRIERS PARTICIPATING IN THE CIVILRESERVE AIR FLEET (CRAF) PROGRAMCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ USAF/XOOBC  (Mrs Ruth Ann Young) Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO(Brig Gen M.J. McCarthy)Pages: 29Distribution: FThis is the first publication of AFI 10-1003.  This instruction further implements AFPD 10-10, Civil Air-craft Use of United States Air Force Airfields.  It provides the procedures for granting authority to CRAFcarriers to use Air Force installations for commercial activities as directed by Department of DefenseInstruction (DODI) 4500.55, Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Carrier Commercial Access to MilitaryInstallations for Non-DOD Operations, October 25, 1995.  It applies to all Air Force, Air National Guard,and Air Force Reserve installations.  Major Commands (MAJCOM) may supplement this instruction.Comments or suggested improvements should be documented on AF Form 847, Recommendation forChange of Publications.  Send copies of supplements or suggested improvements through channels to HQUSAF/XOOBC, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480.Chapter 1 BACKGROUND AND GENERAL INFORMATIONSection 1A—Background1.1. Program Profile. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. ß9513, the Secretary of the Air Force may enter into con-tracts with CRAF air carriers to authorize use of Air Force installations for a weather alternate, a technicalstop not involving the enplaning or deplaning of passengers or cargo, and, at installations within theUnited States, for other commercial purposes as stated in DODI 4500.55.  Use of Air Force installationson foreign soil as a weather alternate or technical stop is subject to the terms of basing rights and otheragreements with host nations.Section 1B—General Information1.2. Program Principles. CRAF carriers that agree to provide an increase in airlift capability greaterthan the carrier’s minimum required participation in the CRAF program are eligible to negotiate for use ofAir Force installations for non-government business.  When mission compatible and operationally feasi-ble, the Air Force will accommodate such use under terms and conditions necessary to promote thenational defense and protect the interest of the United States.  All such use will be at no cost to the AirForce.  Except for weather alternates, air carriers may not use Air Force airfields in the United States tosupport international flights.  Commercial air carrier operations governed by joint use agreements andrequests for intermittent use will continue to be processed under AFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Per-mits, and AFI 10-1002, Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force Airfields.2Chapter 2 PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURESSection 2A—Notification and Proposals2.1. Air Carrier Notification. HQ AMC/DOK, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL 62225-5302,shall provide a contracting officer to be responsible for the functions of the Commercial Access to Mili-tary Installations (CAMI) Contracting Officer set forth in DODI 4500.55.  The CAMI Contracting Officershall publish a notice to advise current and potential CRAF carriers of the opportunity to participate in thisprogram, issue a solicitation if interest is sufficient, and award the contracts in accordance with estab-lished contracting procedures and the provisions of DODI 4500.55.2.2. Air Carrier Proposals. If, in response to the solicitation, an air carrier submits a proposal to HQAMC/DOK that details its increased commitment, identifies candidate installations for its commercialoperations, and specifies the type of operations, number of operations, and type of aircraft to be operated,HQ AMC/DOK shall submit proposals for use of Air Force installations to HQ USAF/XOOB, 1480 AirForce Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480, for review and coordination with the MAJCOM and instal-lation, as appropriate.  HQ AMC will prioritize the requests if multiple air carriers request access at thesame installation.  After the feasibility determination by HQ USAF/XOOB, HQ AMC/DOK shall informthe carriers to either submit proposals to available installations or to revise or withdraw proposals if com-mercial operations cannot be accommodated at requested installations.  Prior to entering into a contractwith a CRAF carrier for the use of an installation under the jurisdiction of another military department,HQ AMC/DOK shall obtain consent from the authorized designee of the Secretary of that military depart-ment.2.2.1. Unsolicited Proposals.  Any unsolicited CRAF carrier proposal submitted directly to an instal-lation or MAJCOM shall be promptly forwarded to HQ AMC/DOK.2.3. Air Carrier Contracts. The CAMI Contracting Officer shall include in CAMI contracts with aircarriers those content items identified in DODI 4500.55, paragraph E.2.a (3).  The CRAF CAMI contractshall provide that the real property instrument or operating agreement will control if there is any conflictbetween the contract and the real property instrument and or operating agreement.  A copy of the com-pleted contract will be provided to HQ USAF/XOOB for distribution to appropriate installations andMAJCOMs.  The contract will be attached to the real property instrument or operating agreement as anexhibit.Section 2B—Real Property Instruments and Operating Agreements2.4. Responsibilities. The installation and MAJCOM evaluation of the proposal shall be submitted toHQ USAF/XOOB.  Proposals determined to be operationally and mission compatible are subject to theenvironmental impact analysis process (EIAP) before final approval.  SAF/AFREA, 172 Luke Avenue,Suite 104, Building 5683, Bolling AFB DC 20332-5113, shall develop the real property instruments, asrequired and incorporate those provisions required by DODI 4500.55.  HQ USAF/XOOB shall developand coordinate the appropriate operating agreements and ensure that they contain provisions required byDODI 4500.55.  Copies of completed real property instruments and operating agreements and revisionsthereto shall be provided to HQ AMC/DOK to be attached as an exhibit to the CRAF CAMI contract.3Operating agreements and or real property instruments will not be renewed or extended.  The solicitationand selection process will be repeated and new agreements and or real property agreements executed forcontinued access to Air Force installations.2.4.1. Insurance.  Real property instruments and or operating agreements shall specify the minimumlevel of liability insurance that must be carried by the air carrier while using or having access to AirForce installations.2.4.2. Legal Proceedings.  Real property instruments and or operating agreements shall provide thatair carriers must notify the installation commander and United States Transportation Command whenjudicial and or administrative proceedings arise from, or are associated with, its activities under theCRAF CAMI program.2.5. Disapproval Subsequent to Negotiations. If an air carrier is given approval to negotiate for accessand the request is subsequently denied, HQ USAF/XOOB shall provide notification to the Deputy Secre-tary of Defense through the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Logistics.2.6. Withdrawal of Increased CRAF Commitment. If HQ AMC/DOK permits an air carrier to with-draw its increased CRAF commitment after entering an agreement for use of an Air Force installation,HQ AMC shall advise HQ USAF/XOOB and the installation so that appropriate steps can be taken toimmediately cancel real property instruments and operating agreements.4Chapter 3 ENVIRONMENTALSection 3A—Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)3.1. General Guidance. Prior to any final decision to allow air carrier access to an installation, all pro-posed actions must be evaluated by the Air Force in compliance with AFI 32-7061, Environmental ImpactAnalysis Process.  If the location of either the proposed action or any alternative is within an air qualitymanagement district (AQMD) designated as “maintenance” or “non-attainment,” a conformity analysismust be accomplished in compliance with Section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act (CAA) (42 U.S.C. ß7506)as prescribed in AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance.Section 3B—Environmental Compliance3.2. Compliance Procedures. CAMI contracts, real property instruments, and operating agreementsshall not relieve air carriers from complying with all federal, state, interstate, and local environmentallaws and shall require that air carriers must promptly notify the installation commander of violationsinvolving environmental laws or regulations.  Air carriers with on-base facilities shall be required to par-ticipate fully in Air Force compliance and pollution prevention programs.  Air carrier operations shall befully integrated in base-level environmental plans, such as the solid and hazardous waste managementplans.3.2.1. Real property instruments and operating agreements shall provide that air carriers are responsi-ble for:••Paying the cost of compliance with the EIAP.Preparing and processing all applicable environmental documents, including, reports, permits,and studies.  (EIAP compliance documentation will be handled in accordance with paragraph2.4, AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process.)• Actions by personnel employed by the air carrier with respect to violations of federal, state,interstate, and local environmental requirements, including fines and penalties stemming fromviolations.• Obtaining necessary air credits pursuant to the Clean Air Act and permits or licenses requiredto operate contractor owned or leased facilities and mobile emission sources.• Environmental  record  keeping  and  reporting  requirements  imposed  by  federal,  state,  inter-state, or local laws, and Air Force regulations.• Emergency response and clean-up due to carrier spills or releases of hazardous substances,pollutants, contaminants, or chemicals.• Management and disposal of all hazardous waste generated by their activities.• Environmental remediation after expiration or cancellation of real property instruments, oper-ating agreements, and CRAF CAMI contracts.3.2.2. Inspection and Review.  Real property instruments and operating agreements shall provide thatthe Air Force may inspect on-base facilities occupied or used by an air carrier to review compliance5with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.  All environmentally related documents mustbe reviewed by the Air Force.Section 3C—Air Installation Incompatible Use Zone (AICUZ)3.3. AICUZ Study. The AICUZ program analyzes airfield noise and accident potential in relation toincompatible land uses as prescribed by DODI 4165.57, November 8, 1977, and AFI 32-6063, Air Instal-lation Compatible Use Zone Program.  If an AICUZ study must be updated to reflect new flying opera-tions and construction initiated under the provisions of this AFI, real property instruments and operatingagreements shall provide that the cost will be paid by the air carrier.6Chapter 4 INFRASTRUCTURESection 4A—General4.1. Use of Air Force Real Property. Air carriers shall be required to pay fair market value to use oracquire Air Force property.  SAF/MII, 1660 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1660, mustapprove air carrier use of Air Force real property that exceeds five years.Section 4B—Airfield4.2. Conditions for Use of Airfield. Changes to the airfield may be required to meet air carrier and orFederal Aviation Administration (FAA) standards.  This may include, but is not limited to, changes in theairfield layout, obstruction markings, lighting, airfield signs, etc.  Costs associated with FAA or otheragency aeronautical survey to determine airfield adequacy will be at no expense to the Air Force.  Realproperty instruments and operating agreements shall provide that all modifications will be at no expenseto the Air Force, that the air carrier will be responsible for any damages to the airfield or airfield systemscaused by air carrier operations, and that any such equipment permanently installed to support air carrieroperations, such as airfield lighting, signs, etc., will become the property of the Air Force upon expirationor cancellation of the real property instrument and or air carrier operating agreement.Section 4C—Pavement4.3. Conditions for Use of Pavement. Pavement areas include, but are not limited to, runway, on-loadand or off-load ramp, layover parking ramp, remote parking ramp, maintenance and engine run-up ramp,and space for support equipment, cargo, and vehicles.  If additional pavement is required for air carrieroperations, and the land is available, the air carrier shall be required to bear all costs associated withdesign, construction, and maintenance, including airfield modifications.Section 4D—Facilities4.4. Facility Construction or Improvements. Construction of new facilities and modifications orupgrades to existing facilities may be authorized when not in conflict with Air Force directives and mustbe approved by the installation commander.  The air carrier will fund, for the duration of the real propertyinstrument and operating agreement, any improvements at the installation required for air carrier opera-tions.  The installation commander is authorized to restrict air carrier access to designated areas of the air-field as specified in AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property.  Supplementarycommercial construction will not encroach on existing areas for hazardous cargo, explosive storage, orarm and de arm activities.  Quantity distance waivers will not be granted to facilitate commercial opera-tions.  Upon termination of the air carrier’s contract or agreement, the air carrier shall be required torestore Air Force real property to the condition that existed when it was leased/acquired or to a conditionstated in the lease/agreement.74.5. Facility Maintenance. The air carrier shall be required to bear all costs for maintenance of facilitiesunder its control.  Facilities and property will be maintained to the same standards as the remainder of theinstallation.Section 4E—Utilities4.6. Utility Services. The Air Force may provide utilities to contractor owned/operated facilities on ametered, reimbursable basis.  AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to USAF Installations, specifies thatinstallation of meters, utilities, and upgrades to utility plants for non-Air Force activities are subject toreimbursement.8Chapter 5 OPERATIONSSection 5A—General5.1. Mission Impacts. There are some Air Force missions that will preclude granting air carrier access toan installation such as a Priority A flying mission, nuclear storage areas or other nuclear missions, and asingle integrated operation plan (SIOP) mission.  Such missions will be identified by the MAJCOM andforwarded with rationale to HQ USAF/XOOB during the feasibility determination.5.1.1. Except for use of the runways and taxiways during landing and takeoff, air carrier operationsmust remain separate from Air Force operations to ensure minimum impacts on the security of mili-tary aircraft and other Air Force resources.5.2. Interference with Air Force Operations. Air carrier operations at Air Force installations shall beauthorized on a non-interference basis.  The real property instrument or air carrier operating agreementwill establish limits on CRAF carrier use as determined necessary to meet military requirements.  Trafficpriority may only be assigned for bona fide inflight emergencies.  Emergencies and ground mishapsinvolving air carrier aircraft or vehicles that cause runway closure will be expeditiously resolved.  Com-manders will notify the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) but may take necessary actions toclear an operationally required runway, even at the risk of damaging or destroying physical evidence,when in the vital interests of the national defense.5.3. Suspension of Air Carrier Operations. Installation commanders shall coordinate with the carrierat the earliest opportunity when any situation (real or simulated) arises that requires suspension of civilaircraft operations.  Contracts, real property instruments, and operating agreements shall provide that theAir Force will not be liable for any costs associated with the temporary suspension of civil aircraft opera-tions.5.4. Filing Flight Plans and Flight Following. Air carriers shall be held responsible for filing flightplans and flight following functions required for operations.Section 5B—Weather Information5.5. Meteorological Services. Forecasting services shall not be provided to air carriers located at AirForce installations, except to advise of severe weather watches or warnings.  Operating agreements shallprovide that air carriers may use and pay for delivery of observation service via telewriter or closed circuittelevision at the discretion of the installation commander.  The Air Force shall be held harmless from anydamage to air carrier resources resulting from unforecast weather phenomena or conditions.  It is recom-mended that air carrier operations be prohibited during any period when assigned military aircraft havebeen evacuated due to weather.9Chapter 6 AIRFIELD SYSTEMSSection 6A—Operating Hours6.1. Airfield Hours. Extending airfield operating hours for air carrier operations will be at no expense tothe Air Force and will be governed by Air Force authority and capability to provide increased manning.Airfield operating hours will not be extended to support air carrier operations if existing agreements withthe community establish military quiet hours.Section 6B—Airfield Systems6.2. Air Traffic Control and Landing System (ATCALS). Operating agreements shall provide thatinstallation and or modification and maintenance of ATCALS equipment required to support air carrieroperations will be at no expense to the Air Force, and that additional or modified ATCALS equipmentshall be removed by the carrier or become the property of the Air Force at the Air Force’s discretion uponexpiration or cancellation of the real property instrument and or air carrier operating agreement.6.3. Priority of Air Traffic Services. Certain military operations may require priority handling. Air car-rier aircraft may be required to hold on the ground or in the air, except in case of a declared emergency.Operating agreements shall provide that any increase in air carrier operational or other costs incurred as aresult of such holding will be the carrier’s responsibility and not the Air Force’s responsibility.6.4. Aircraft Arresting Systems (AAS). The installation commander may approve temporary removaland replacement of above ground systems that affect air carrier operations at air carrier expense.  If aboveground AAS cables remain permanently connected due to military requirements, the operating agree-ments shall provide that all damages to the AAS caused by the air carrier or damage to air carrier aircraftcaused by the AAS will be at no expense to the Air Force, and that runway slap pad replacement costs willbe on a prorated basis.10Chapter 7 SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTHSection 7A—Air Force Rights and Responsibilities7.1. Air Force Rights. Operating agreements shall provide that:7.1.1. Air Force safety personnel will have unimpeded access to all air carrier facilities on the instal-lation, regardless of occupancy, in the performance of their duties.7.1.2. Air Force ground safety managers and the bioenvironmental engineer may periodically reviewair carrier operations, as specified in the operating agreement, to ensure occupational safety and healthcompliance and ensure air carrier operations pose no risk to personnel or material.7.1.3. Air Force flight safety officers may periodically monitor air carrier movements, both on theground and within the airport traffic area, to ensure there is no conflict with Air Force operations andmay accompany principal operations inspectors (POI) assigned to an air carrier by the FAA duringvisits to their tenant air carriers, on a non-interference basis.7.2. Publish Information on Air Carrier Operations. Air carrier operations shall be described in allbase mid-air collision avoidance (MACA) publications and presentations.7.3. Air Traffic Control Board Representation. The Air Force will include air carrier representativesat all Air Traffic Control Board meetings.Section 7B—Air Carrier Responsibilities7.4. Air Carrier Obligations. Operating agreements shall provide that:7.4.1. Air carriers with fixed base type operations on Air Force installations will, at a minimum, meetthe standards and practices specified in Air Force directives and instructions on occupational safetyand health and will ensure that Air Force personnel are not exposed to hazardous situations or condi-tions caused by or arising upon the carrier’s facility.7.4.2. Air carrier equipment, facilities, and personnel will be separated from Air Force munitionsstorage areas and explosives operations/locations to the greatest extent possible, but no less than themandatory distances in DODSTD 6055.9, DOD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, Octo-ber 1992, or Air Force directives, whichever is the most restrictive, and that Air Force munitions stor-age structures will not be used for storage of commercial explosive or hazardous material or othercommodities.7.4.3. Air carrier industrial operations shall, as a minimum, comply with Department of Labor stan-dards (29 CFR 1910); facilities will meet and be maintained to current National Fire Protection Asso-ciation codes; air carriers will report all on-the-job injuries and illnesses to the Occupational Safetyand Health Administration (OSHA) in accordance with OSHA regulations; and air carrier employeeinjuries and illnesses will not be accountable to the host installation.7.4.4. The air carrier will ensure that Air Force response agencies are fully knowledgeable of its oper-ations, to include response procedures for air carrier aircraft emergencies, hazardous material or cargo11handling, and other conditions or situations that, if unknown, could jeopardize the safety of theresponse forces.Section 7C—Hazardous Cargo7.5. Movement of Hazardous Cargo. Operating agreements shall provide that air carriers will report allmovements of Department of Transportation (DOT) Class 1.1 and 1.2 explosive material prior to arrivalon the installation.  If the designated hazardous cargo area will be in use for military operations during theplanned movement period, the operating agreement will provide that the air carrier will delay the ship-ment until a safe transient parking area can be identified, or until the designated hazardous cargo area isclear.  Handling procedures for hazardous cargo will be developed between the installation and the aircarrier.Section 7D—Accidents/Incidents7.6. Investigations.7.6.1. Air Force installation commanders will provide emergency services and notify NTSB and FAAwhen there is an air carrier mishap on Air Force property.  The operating agreement will provide thatthe cost of such emergency services will be reimbursed by the air carrier.  “Emergency services” areunderstood to include rendering immediate care to the injured (see paragraph 10.6), control of accessto the accident scene, and preservation of perishable evidence (where possible).  The Safety memberof the Disaster Response Force will ensure the scene is documented photographically to the maximumextent possible, but is not authorized to impound equipment or records associated with civil aircraft.7.6.2. Investigation and reporting of air carrier accidents, incidents, injuries, and illnesses will be thesole responsibility of the NTSB, FAA, and air carrier when damage, injury, or illness is restricted topersonnel or materiel associated with air carrier operations.  Air Force personnel who are witnesses orparticipants in air carrier accidents, incidents, injuries, or illnesses (air traffic controllers, transientalert personnel, marshallers, etc.) must be made available to duly appointed Federal investigators(e.g., NTSB, FAA, OSHA), but are not obliged to give statements to air carrier, insurance, or othernon-government investigators, except as provided for by law.7.6.3. If government personnel or materiel are injured, damaged, or destroyed as a result of an air car-rier operation, accident, or incident, air carrier personnel will cooperate fully with all military investi-gations.  There are three types of investigations:• A  safety  investigation,  conducted  strictly  to  prevent  recurrence  of  similar  accidents  in  thefuture.• A legal investigation, conducted to provide a factual, publicly releasable report of the circum-stances surrounding a loss to the Air Force.• A criminal investigation, conducted when circumstances indicate intentional harm to govern-ment personnel or intentional damage or theft of government property.7.6.4. If government personnel or materiel are injured, damaged, or destroyed as a result of an air car-rier operation, accident, or incident, the Air Force will:•Participate as a party to any NTSB or FAA investigation.12• Conduct an administrative investigation in accordance with AFJI 91-206, Participation in aMilitary or Civil Aircraft Accident Safety Investigation (formerly AFR 127-11).• Conduct  a  safety  investigation  as  prescribed  by  AFI  91-204,  Safety  Investigations  andReports, and a legal investigation as prescribed by AFI 51-503, Aircraft, Missile, Nuclear, andSpace Accident Investigations, as required.• Conduct  a  criminal  investigation  in  accordance  with  AFI  71-101,  Criminal  Investigations,Counterintelligence and Protective Service Matters.13Chapter 8 SECURITYSection 8A—General8.1. Security Requirements. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier must comply withall FAA security regulations and guidance, as well as Air Force and local installation security require-ments.  Agreements with air carriers will address the following:•••Installation  access  procedures  for  air  carrier  customers  and  employees  for  normal  operations,increased threat conditions, and exercises.Flightline access procedures for vehicle operations and personnel identification.Procedures  for  passenger  and  cargo  screening  to  comply  with  Federal  Aviation  Regulation(FAR), Parts 107 and 108, hazardous cargo handling, customs, immigration, and agriculture.• Resource protection procedures in responding to facility alarms and conducting inspections; vehi-cle registration and search procedures; and antiterrorism considerations (e.g., public parking, aircarrier employee background investigations).Section 8B—Installation Access8.2. Barred Individuals. Operating agreements shall provide that the installation commander may exer-cise his or her authority under the provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 by restricting or prohib-iting air carrier employee or passenger access to the installation.  Nothing in the agreements with the aircarrier shall affect this authority.  Any claims of liability resulting from the exercise of such authorityshall rest with the air carrier and not the Air Force.8.3. Procedures for Air Carrier Employees. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrierwill provide the Air Force pass and identification office with a list of employees that require access to theinstallation for work-related duties, and that air carrier employee access will be limited to hours ofemployment and to air carrier facilities only, except as approved by the installation commander.8.3.1. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier employees must meet the same require-ments as base employees to obtain vehicle passes and to drive on the installation.  All drivers mustmeet State registration licensing requirements, to include minimum liability insurance.  Additionally,the air carrier will provide the security police copies of air carrier identification badges for purposes offamiliarization.  The Installation Security Council (ISC) will determine the type of identificationrequired for entry to the installation and whether temporary or permanent vehicle passes will beissued.8.3.2. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier will advise all employees that they andtheir vehicles are subject to random vehicle inspections.  Random vehicle inspections are also applica-ble to air carrier customers and other visitors to the installation.8.4. Procedures for Passengers. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier will maintainpositive control of its customers and visitors while on the installation.  Passengers must be identified prior14to entry to the installation and will be escorted by the air carrier while on the installation.  Procedures toexpedite escorted passengers must be approved by the ISC.Section 8C—Flightline Access8.5. Procedures for Air Carrier Employees. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrieremployees must have a valid need to be on the Air Force flightline.  Access will be limited to establishedduty hours and designated air carrier operating areas, unless air carrier officials specifically request andreceive approval from the installation commander through the airfield manager.  The air carrier will com-ply with localized flightline identification processes.  If a localized air carrier badge is used for flightlineaccess, the use of these badges and procedures for issue must be approved by the ISC.  If the AF Form1199, Air Force Entry Control Card, is used, it must vary in color from the AF Form 1199 currently in usefor identifying people that are authorized access to restricted areas.8.5.1. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier employees must be certified by the AirForce to drive on the flightline and are responsible for following flightline driving rules.  Flightlinedrivers must be cognizant of aircraft movement and towing equipment used to support air operations.Privately owned vehicles to be operated on the flightline must be approved by the installation com-mander.  Company or agency vehicles must be properly identified for flightline access and registeredwith the airfield manager.Section 8D—Access During Exercises8.6. Procedures for Access During Exercises. The installation commander or a designated representa-tive will coordinate with air carrier supervisors during exercises to ensure employee access to work areasand terminal does not interfere with military commitments and operations.  Generally, air carrier employ-ees will be allowed to proceed with their work.  When exercise or contingency planning may result in animpact to air carrier operations, the installation commander or a designated representative will providereasonable notification to the air carrier.Section 8E—Resource Protection Procedures8.7. Resource Protection Procedures. Operating agreements shall provide that air carriers will complywith AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection Program, and the local Resource Protection Plan.  Thesedocuments address alarm response, anti-robbery procedures, alarm system standards, and inspectionrequirements.  If the carrier requires an alarmed facility, the facility will be constructed in accordancewith applicable standards; and the alarm system, installed at no cost to the Air Force, must be compatiblewith existing alarm systems on the installation.8.7.1. Air carriers shall be informed in writing of sensitive areas and buildings on the installation thatare off-limits to their employees.  The Air Force shall ensure that air carrier personnel are included inthe installation security awareness program.  The air carrier shall ensure that training is provided forinternal security and for identifying, reporting, and challenging suspicious persons, objects, or pack-ages.  Security police must be notified immediately upon identification of a suspicious package.8.7.2. Operating agreements shall provide that the Air Force is authorized to inspect air carrier facili-ties on Air Force property.  Various methods are used to conduct inspections, including the use of mil-itary working dogs (MWD).  Air carrier employees must be notified that MWDs may be used to check15facilities and parking lots.  Additionally, the air carrier should ensure employees are informed of theappropriate behavior when an MWD is in their area.8.7.3. Air carrier employees shall be included in the Air Force Random Antiterrorism Measures Pro-gram.  Air carrier personnel should be briefed and trained on procedures for handling suspicious pack-ages, bomb threats, and other antiterrorism measures.8.7.4. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier will conduct annual security awarenesstraining for all employees, that the air carrier will also appoint a security manager to conduct trainingand attend wing security manager meetings, and that Air Force training for air carrier employees willbe provided on a reimbursable basis.16Chapter 9 FINANCIAL9.1. General Guidance.  To the maximum extent possible, and within the provisions of the law, fundsgenerated by this program will be available to the contracted installation for obligation for the sameperiod as the appropriation to which credited.9.1.1. Computing and displaying DOD costs will be as prescribed in AFR 177-8 and DODI 7230.7,User Charges, January 29, 1985, with changes 1 and 2; DOD 7000.14R, vol 11B, ReimbursableOperations, Policy and Procedures--Defense Business Operations Fund, December 1994; andDODM 7220.9, chapter 26, Accounting Manual, October 1983.9.1.2. Operating agreements and or real property instruments shall provide that air carriers will payscheduled or specified fees and charges associated with access to, use of, or abandonment of militaryinstallations for commercial purposes, weather alternate use, or technical stops in advance and thatpayment of all associated taxes is an air carrier responsibility.9.2. Identifying Costs. The CAMI contract shall address specific costs to be collected from the air car-rier for utilities and services (such as ice and/or snow control, crash, and/or fire response, and air trafficcontrol); access to Service B equipment for the filing of flight plans; weather support; personnel support;landing fees; fuel; security; equipment rental; environmental analysis; air permit application; airfieldmaintenance and/or upgrade; runway rubber removal; runway painting; runway repair; or other chargesauthorized under the contract.9.3. Procedures for Recovery of Charges. Procedures for recovery of charges and specific amounts tobe collected shall be included in the real property instrument and or operating agreement.  An air carrierthat has signed a CAMI contract, must pay the estimated annual cost of using the installation based on thetype of operations, number of operations and type of aircraft to be operated.  Payment will be made on 1October each year, or at least 30 days before the commencement of operations, whichever comes first.The reimbursement for services will be based on total cost or fair market value, whichever is higher, inaccordance with DODI 7230.7, User Charges.  The supporting Defense Accounting Office (DAO) orOperating Location (OPLOC) will render a bill to the carrier for advance payment based on the projectedcharges.  Accounting procedures for recording unearned revenue are in AFR 177-101, chapter 32, Gen-eral Accounting & Finance System at Base Level.  Amounts reimbursed under a fair market value price,although in excess of the cost to the government, may be retained pursuant to 10 U.S.C. ß9513.  To esti-mate annual cost, if each operation is to be identical, a standard package of services can be used to com-pute costs for a typical operation, multiplied by the number of operations.9.3.1. Charges for aviation fuel must be based on the actual quantities issued.  Aviation fuel and ser-vices provided in excess of the standard package must be identified to the responsible billing office topermit timely supplemental billing to the carrier.  Reimbursements for aviation fuel will be credited tothe Air Force fuels account.  Applicable surcharges for non-DOD customers will be assessed asrequired by present regulations.  Surcharges are not available for retention at the installation.  Chargesfor aviation fuels are handled as prescribed in AFM 67-1, USAF Supply Manual, vol 1, part 3, sectionE, Bulk Petroleum Fuels Management Category 1 Fuels Division, and section I, Aviation Fuel Issuesto Contract, Civil, and Charter Aircraft.  Fuel will be purchased with cash (US currency or companychecks) or on established credit.  Cash sales are processed locally and credit purchases are billed from17Kelly AFB TX.  Accounts receivable for aviation fuel issued to all non-DOD aircraft are transferredto DFAS-DE Kelly/FSRF, 1014 Billy Mitchell Blvd, Suite 1, Kelly AFB TX 78241-5603, for prepa-ration of a consolidated monthly billing to each carrier.  Prepayments for aviation fuel are also submit-ted to DFAS-DE Kelly/FSRF.9.3.2. Reimbursements for military personnel services will be credited to the Air Force Military Per-sonnel Appropriation.  Billing for military personnel services are accelerated as prescribed by AFR177-101, chapter 30.  The supporting accounting office will process the reimbursements against theadvance payment made by the air carrier.  Reimbursements for airfield operations and maintenanceexpenses will also be processed against the advance payment made by the air carrier.  Amounts col-lected in excess of the costs to the installation for airfield operations and maintenance may be retainedand obligated for the same period as the appropriation credited using procedures in AFR 177-101,chapter 23.9.3.3. Reimbursement procedures for bases that have airfield operations and maintenance functionscontracted out will be the same as those bases that perform the functions in-house.  The air carriermust reimburse the Air Force directly for services provided either by in-house or contract resources.9.4. Reimbursement of Overpaid Fees. At the end of the fiscal year, the Air Force will carry forward tothe next fiscal year any over payments by the air carrier.  If the real property instrument expires and willnot be renewed, the Air Force will refund any over payments to the carrier.18Chapter 10 EMERGENCY RESPONSE Section 10A—Fire Fighting10.1. Level of Protection. Air Force fire protection services cannot be increased solely to accommodateFAA or air carrier requirements. 10.2. Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Capability.10.2.1. The Air Force will determine the Major Accident Response Force for responding to, andrecovering from, major accidents involving air carrier aircraft.10.2.2. The adequacy of ARFF capability must be determined using FAR, Part 139, AS-102, andDODI 6055.6, DOD Fire Emergency Services Program, December 15, 1994.  Aircraft fire protectionrequirements shall not exceed the authorized ARFF vehicle specified in Allowance Sources (AS)O-12.10.3. Structural Fire Fighting Capability. The level of structural fire fighting capability available mustbe determined and specified in the agreement.10.4. Air Carrier Responsibilities.10.4.1. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier must: ••Provide the installation fire department with aircraft pre-fire plans.Schedule  and  coordinate  fire  fighter  egress,  aircraft  shut  down,  and  aircraft  familiarizationtraining at no cost to the Air Force.• Comply with all DOD and Air Force fire  and safety regulations for facilities on Air Forceproperty.  Facilities are governed by Military Handbook (MILHDBK) 1008B, Fire Protectionfor Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction, and the National Fire Protection Asso-ciation Standard 101 (Life Safety Code).• Comply with 49 CFR 173 when transporting explosive or hazardous cargo on an Air Forceinstallation.Section 10B—Hazardous Material10.5. Hazardous Materials Response. Air Force hazardous materials incident planning and responseorganizations must be aware of air carrier operations, to include emergency response procedures, hazard-ous material or cargo handling, and other conditions or situations that could result in a hazardous materi-als release or emergency.  Procedures and responsibilities for hazardous material release and explosivecargo incidents from air carrier operations must be included in real property or operation agreements, asappropriate.  AFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response, and AF Manual32-4004, Emergency Response Operations, provide guidance for planning and responding to incidentsinvolving hazardous materials.  If carriers desire to transport hazardous materials requiring specializedequipment for personal protection or clean-up, it is the carriers’ responsibility to ensure their host base has19such equipment immediately available.  If base emergency preparedness personnel do not possessrequired equipment, the air carrier must provide it at no cost to the Air Force.Section 10C—Medical10.6. Medical Response. Non-DOD beneficiary air carrier personnel who require emergency medicalcare will be stabilized and transferred to appropriate civilian facilities.  Routine medical care is not avail-able to non-DOD beneficiaries.  Medical personnel may participate in emergency responses according tothe emergency procedures prescribed by individual base disaster planning.Section 10D—Search and Rescue10.7. Search and Rescue Assistance. Emergency search and recovery can be provided if determinedappropriate by the installation commander.20Chapter 11 GROUND HANDLINGSection 11A—Fuel11.1. Purchasing Air Force Fuel. If  an  air  carrier  has  negotiated  for  authority  to  obtain  AirForce-owned fuel, it must provide the Base Fuels Management Flight with its fuel requirements.  Submis-sion of the annual fuel requirement will reflect Air Force and air carrier needs.11.1.1. Reimbursement procedures are addressed in paragraph 9.3.1 of this instruction.  Applicationsfor credit must be submitted to SA-ALC/SFR, 1014 Billy Mitchell Blvd, Suite 1, Kelly AFB TX78241-5603, as prescribed in AFM 67-1, USAF Supply Manual, vol 1, part 3, chapter 1, section I, Avi-ation Fuel Issues to Contract, Civil, and Charter Aircraft.11.1.2. Only aircraft with safety engineering analysis (SSEA) certification will be approved for con-current servicing by the Air Force as prescribed in Technical Order 00-25-172.Section 11B—Aerial Port Equipment11.2. Use of Air Force Aerial Port Equipment. The air carrier shall be required to provide its ownaerial port equipment.  If Air Force aerial port equipment is used in an emergency, reimbursement mustbe obtained.21Chapter 12 AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE12.1. Servicing and Maintenance. The Air Force will not service or maintain air carrier aircraft.12.1.1. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier must have an aircraft maintenance rep-resentative available at all times when its aircraft are on an Air Force installation.12.2. Maintenance and Inspections. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier aircraft mainte-nance on Air Force installations is limited to performing the minimum maintenance and/or inspectionsrequired for continued safe flight, and that extensive scheduled maintenance or inspections will not beaccomplished at Air Force installations.22Chapter 13 MANPOWER13.1. Manning. Air Force manpower authorizations will not be increased in support of air carrier opera-tions. Operating agreements shall provide that air carriers will provide reimbursement for all assistanceprovided by Air Force personnel.23Chapter 14 SERVICESSection 14A—General14.1. Entitlement to Services. Air carrier employees and passengers with valid DOD identificationcards are authorized support consistent with their entitlements and privileges.  Basic human services pro-vided to non-military personnel will be extremely limited.Section 14B—Food Services14.2. Availability of Food Services.14.2.1. Food service and transportation of passengers to dining facilities (including flight dining ser-vice) for employees and passengers is the sole responsibility of the air carrier.14.2.2. Personnel associated with air carrier operations may be authorized to eat in category C, non-appropriated, or commercial base facilities (e.g., Burger King).  Installation commanders shouldensure the use of such facilities does not impact service provided to military personnel and their fam-ilies.14.2.3. Appropriated enlisted dining facilities are not available to personnel associated with air car-rier operations.Section 14C—Lodging14.3. Availability of Lodging.14.3.1. Operating agreements shall provide that lodging and transportation of air carrier employeesand passengers to lodging is the sole responsibility of the air carrier.14.3.2. The installation commander may authorize the use of on-base lodging, if needed, as pre-scribed in AFI 34-601, Air Force Lodging Management.  Lodging will not be provided on a routinebasis.Section 14D— Mortuary Services14.4. Availability of Mortuary Services.14.4.1. Mortuary services are normally only provided to military personnel.14.4.2. Mortuary services may be provided under local civilian jurisdiction in accordance with stateand federal regulations.24Chapter 15 DISPUTE RESOLUTION15.1. Standard. All disputes involving the administration of CAMI contracts, real property instruments,and operating agreements should be resolved at the earliest stage feasible, by the fastest and least expen-sive method possible, and at the lowest possible organizational level.15.2. Procedures. At a minimum, real property instruments and operating agreements shall include dis-pute resolution provisions that provide that any dispute arising under or related to the instrument or agree-ment that cannot be resolved through negotiations shall be decided in writing by the installationcommander.  Instruments and agreements shall also provide for an appeal procedure and alternative dis-pute resolution procedures for certain matters in dispute.RALPH E. EBERHART,   Lt General, USAFDCS/Plans and Operations25GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS Attachment 1 References10. U.S.C. ß9513, Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994Internal Security Act of 195042. U.S.C. ßß4321-4347, National Environmental Policy Act of 196942. U.S.C. ß7506, Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990AFJI 91-206, Participation in a Military or Civil Aircraft Accident Safety InvestigationAFJI 134-211, Army And Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) General PoliciesCouncil  on  Environmental  Quality  Regulations  for  Implementing  the  Procedural  Provisions  of  theNational Environmental Policy Act, 40 CFR Parts 1500-1508DOD  7000.14R,  Volume  11B,  Reimbursable  Operations,  Policy  and  Procedures--Defense  BusinessOperations FundDODI 4165.57, Air Installation Compatible Use ZonesDODI 6055.6, DOD Fire Emergency Services ProgramDODI 7230.7, User Charges with Changes 1 and 2DODM 7220.9, Chapter 26, Accounting ManualDODSTD 6055.9, DOD Ammunition and Explosives Safety StandardsFederal Aviation Regulation, Part 139, Certification and Operations: Land Airports Serving Certain AirCarriersFederal Aviation Regulation, Parts 107 and 108, Airport SecurityMilitary Handbook 1008B, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and ConstructionNational Fire Protection Association Standard 101, Life Safety CodeAFH 32-1084, Standard Facility Requirements HandbookAFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing PermitsAFI 10-1002, Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force AirfieldsAFI 31-101, Air Force Physical Security ProgramAFI 31-201, Security Police Standards and ProceduresAFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection ProgramAFI 31-210, Air Force Antiterrorism ProgramAFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to USAF InstallationsAFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and ResponseAFI 32-6063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program26AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis ProcessAFI 32-7040, Air Quality ComplianceAFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real PropertyAFI 34-101, Services Programs And Use EligibilityAFI 34-115, Air Force Open Mess ProgramAFI 34-401, Food Service Management ProgramAFI 34-501, Mortuary Affairs ProgramAFI 34-601, Air Force Lodging ManagementAFI 51-503, Aircraft, Missile, Nuclear, and Space Accident InvestigationsAFI 71-101, Criminal Investigations, Counterintelligence and Protective Service MattersAFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and ReportsAFM 32-4002, Emergency Response OperationsAFM 67-1, USAF Supply ManualAFR 177-101, General Accounting & Finance at Base LevelTechnical Order (TO) 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/BondingAbbreviations and AcronymsAAS—Aircraft arresting systemsAF—Air ForceAFI—Air Force InstructionAFJI—Air Force Joint InstructionAFM—Air Force ManualAFPD—Air Force Policy DirectiveAFR—Air Force Regulation AICUZ—Air Installation Compatible Use ZoneAMC—Air Mobility CommandAQMD—Air Quality Management DistrictARFF—Aircraft Rescue and Fire FightingAS—Allowance SourcesATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing SystemsCAA—Clean Air ActCAMI—Commercial Access to Military InstallationsCFR—Code of Federal Regulations27CRAF—Civil Reserve Air FleetDAO—Defense Accounting OfficeDFAS—Defense Finance & Accounting ServiceDOD—Department of DefenseDODI—Department of Defense InstructionDODM—Department of Defense ManualDODSTD—Department of Defense StandardDOT—Department of TransportationDPSC—Defense Personnel Support CenterEIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis ProcessFAA—Federal Aviation AdministrationFAR—Federal Aviation RegulationHQ AMC/DOK—Headquarters Air Mobility Command, Contract Airlift Division, Directorate ofOperationsHQ USAF/XOOB—Headquarters United States Air Force, Bases & Units Division, Directorate ofOperationsHQ USAF/XOOBC—Headquarters United States Air Force, Civil Aviation, Bases & Units Division,Directorate of OperationsISC—Installation Security CouncilMACA—Mid-Air Collision avoidanceMAJCOM—Major CommandMILHDBK—Military HandbookMWD—Military Working DogNTSB—National Transportation Safety BoardOPLOC—Operating LocationOSHA—Occupational Safety and Health AdministrationPOI—Principal Operations InspectorSA-ALC/SFR—San Antonio Air Logistics Center, Directorate of Aerospace Fuels ManagementSAF/AFREA—Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force Real Estate AgencySAF/MII—Secretary of the Air Force, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Installations)SIOP—Single Integrated Operation PlanSSEA—System Safety Engineering AnalysisTO—Technical Order28USC—United States CodeTermsAir Mobility Command CRAF Commercial Access to Military Installations Contract—A contractauthorizing air carrier participation in the CRAF Commercial Access to Military Installations program inreturn for increased commitment of aircraft in excess of the air carrier’s minimum CRAF commitment.CRAF Carrier—A FAR, Part 121 certificated, DOD surveyed and approved air carrier under contract tothe Air Force to commit aircraft and crews for emergencies, contingencies, and war.Hold Harmless Clause—An agreement by which the air carrier indemnifies and holds harmless theUnited States, its agents, employees, and instrumentalities from any action, suit, or claim of any sortresulting from, relating to, or arising out of any activities conducted, or services or supplies furnished, inconnection with the contract.Installation Air Carrier Operating Agreement—An operating agreement, outlining the day-to-dayworking relationships, responsibilities, services, supplies, costs, fees, and reimbursements, as negotiatedbetween the Air Force and the air carrier.Other Commercial Purposes—Air carrier activities associated with the transport of cargo or passengersfor hire, or any air carrier controlled facilities or operations.Real Property Instrument—Normally a lease or license signed by the appropriate Air Force or ArmyCorps of Engineers representative and the air carrier that provides authority for air carrier use of Air Forceland or buildings.Reservation of Right to Exclude Air Carrier Clause—A contractual clause stating that the Secretaryof the Air Force may, without providing prior notice and without liability to the US Government, denyaccess to an installation when necessary to meet defense mission requirements.Technical Stop—Use of a military airfield for purposes other than enplaning or deplaning cargo orpassengers, such as crew change, refueling, or minor maintenance.United States—The 50 states and the District of Columbia.  For the purposes of this instruction, U.S.territories and possessions are not included.Weather Alternate—An Air Force airfield to which a flight may proceed if landing at the airfield towhich the flight was dispatched becomes inadvisable due to weather.29