BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-10011 SEPTEMBER 1995OperationsCIVIL AIRCRAFT LANDING PERMITSCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution OfficeOPR: HQ USAF/XOOBC (Mrs Ruth Ann Young)Supersedes AFR 55-20, Section A,B,C and D, 10 April 1987.Certified by: HQ USAF/XO(Lt Gen Buster C. Glosson)Pages: 33Distribution: FThis instruction implements AFPD 10-10, Civil Aircraft Use of United States Air Force Airfields.  It pro-vides guidance and procedures for granting civil aircraft access to airfields for which the Air Force hasoperational jurisdiction and exclusive use, either by ownership, lease, or international agreement.  Thispublication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of1973. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an appropriate Privacy Act Statement.  Use this instructionwith AFI 10-1002, Agreements For Civil Aircraft Use Of Air Force Airfield.SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision incorporates and reorganizes the requirements, information, and procedures formerly inAFR 55-20; includes a new provision exempting Coast Guard auxiliary aircraft from the requirement fora landing permit (paragraph 3.2.); adds a new requirement for corporations to resubmit the DD Form 2402every 5 years (paragraph 5.1.); adds aerial performance, dependents of both active and retired militarypersonnel, and civil reserve air fleet (CRAF) alternate as new purposes for use (Table 1.); adds CoastGuard and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration personnel as authorized uniformed serviceusers (Table 1.); adds all retired uniformed service members with military identification cards as autho-rized retired military users (Table 1.); eliminates receipt of retirement pay as a prerequisite for issuing apermit to retired members of the Reserve Forces (Table 1.); adds a requirement that notification of unau-thorized landings be provided on FAA forms (paragraph 10.1.2.); adds the list of weather alternates forscheduled air carriers (Attachment 2); adds landing permit application instructions (Attachment 3); andaligns this instruction with AFPD 10-10.  Changed material from previous edition is indicated by a | .21.2.3.4.5.6.Table 1.7.Table 2.8.9.10.11.12.Table 3.Table 4.13.14.15........................................................................................................................Scope.  ...............................................................................Responsibilities and Authorities...........Aircraft Exempt From the Requirement for a Civil Aircraft Landing Permit:Conditions for Use of Air Force ...........................................................................................................................................................................Application Procedures.  Purpose of Use.  ........................................................................................................Purpose of Use/Verification/Approval Authority/Fees........................................................................................................................................Insurance Requirements.  Aircraft Liability Coverage Requirements. .............................................................Processing a Permit Application. ..............................................................................Civil Fly-Ins.  ............................................................................................................Unauthorized Landings: .............................................................................................Parking and Storage.  ................................................................................................Fees for Landing, Parking, and Storage: .................................................................................................................................................................................Landing Fees.Parking and Storage Fees. .....................................................................................................................................................................Aviation Fuel and Oil Purchases.  Supply and Service Charges.  ...................................................................................Forms Prescribed .......................................................................................................Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS Attachment 2— WEATHER ALTERNATE LIST  Attachment 3— LANDING PERMIT APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995335677 818 191921212424 25 25262626 27 30 31AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199531.  Scope.   Air Force airfields are available for use by civil aircraft so far as such use does not interferewith military operations or jeopardize the military utility of the installation.  Access will be granted on anequitable basis.  Air Force requirements take precedence over authorized civil aircraft use.  This instruc-tion carries the force of US law, and exceptions are not authorized without prior approval from the CivilAviation Branch, Bases and Units Division, Directorate of  Operations, (HQ USAF/XOOBC), 1480 AirForce Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480.  Proposed exceptions or waivers are evaluated as to currentand future impact on Air Force policy and operations.2.  Responsibilities and Authorities.   The following establishes responsibilities and authorities:2.1.  The Air Force:2.1.1.  Determines whether civil aircraft use of Air Force airfields is compatible with current andplanned military activities.2.1.2.  Normally authorizes civil aircraft use of Air Force airfields only in support of official Gov-ernment business.  If exceptional circumstances warrant, use for other purposes may be autho-rized.2.1.3.  Acts as clearing authority for civil aircraft use of Air Force airfields, subject to the laws andregulations of the US, or to applicable international agreements (e.g., status of forces agreements)with the country in which the Air Force installation is located.2.1.4.  Reserves the right to suspend any operation that is inconsistent with national defense inter-ests or deemed not in the best interests of the Air Force.2.1.5.  Will terminate authority to use an Air Force airfield if the:• User's liability insurance is canceled.• User lands for other than the approved purpose of  use or is otherwise in violation of thisinstruction or clearances and directives hereunder.2.1.6.  Will not authorize use of Air Force airfields:•In competition with civil airports by providing services or facilities that are already avail-able in the private sector.  NOTE:  Use to conduct business with or for the US Govern-ment is not considered as competition with civil airports.Solely for the convenience of passengers or aircraft operator.Solely for transient aircraft servicing.••• By civil aircraft that do not meet US Department of Transportation operating and airwor-thiness standards.• That selectively promotes, benefits, or favors a specific commercial venture unless equita-ble consideration is available to all potential users in like circumstances.For unsolicited proposals in procuring Government business or contracts.Solely for customs-handling purposes.••• When the air traffic control tower and base operations are closed or when a runway isrestricted from use by all aircraft.  NOTE:  Requests for waiver of this provision mustaddress liability responsibility, emergency response, and security.4AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 19952.1.7.  Will not authorize civil aircraft use of Air Force ramps located on civil airfields. NOTE:This paragraph does not apply to use of aero club facilities located on Air Force land at civil air-ports, or civil aircraft chartered by the US military departments and authorized use of terminalfacilities or ground handling services on the Air Force ramp.  Only the DD Form 2400, Civil Air-craft Certificate of Insurance, and DD Form 2402, Civil Aircraft Hold Harmless Agreement, arerequired for use of Air Force ramps on civil airfields.2.2.  Civil aircraft operators must:2.2.1.  Have an approved DD Form 2401, Civil Aircraft Landing Permit, before operating at AirForce airfields, except for emergency use and as indicated in paragraphs 2.4.2., 2.4.2.3., 3., andparagraph 9.1.1.2.2.2.  Ensure that pavement load-bearing capacity will support the aircraft to be operated at theAir Force airfield.2.2.3.  Ensure that aircraft to be operated at Air Force airfields are equipped with an operatingtwo-way radio capable of communicating with the air traffic control tower.2.2.4.  Obtain final approval for landing from the installation commander or a designated repre-sentative (normally base operations) at least 24 hours prior to arrival.2.2.5.  Not assume that the landing clearance granted by an air traffic control tower facility is asubstitute for either the approved civil aircraft landing permit or approval from the installationcommander or a designated representative (normally base operations).2.2.6.  Obtain required diplomatic or overflight clearance before operating in foreign airspace.2.2.7.  Pay applicable costs and fees.2.2.8.  File a flight plan before departing the Air Force airfield.2.3.  The installation commander or a designated representative:2.3.1.  Exercises administrative and security control over both the aircraft and passengers while onthe installation.2.3.2.  May require civil users to delay, reschedule, or reroute aircraft arrivals or departures to pre-clude interference with military activities.2.3.3.  Cooperates with customs, immigration, health, and other public authorities in connectionwith civil aircraft arrival and departure.2.4.  Decision Authority.   The authority to grant civil aircraft use of Air Force airfields is vested in:2.4.1.  Directorate of Operations,  Bases and Units Division, Civil Aviation Branch(HQUSAF/XOOBC).  HQ USAF/XOOBC may act on any request for civil aircraft use of an AirForce airfield.  Decision authority for the following will not be delegated below HQ USAF:• Use of multiple Air Force airfields except as designated in 2.4.2.• Those designated as 2 under Approval Authority in Table 1.• Any unusual or unique purpose of use not specifically addressed in this instruction.AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199552.4.2.  Major Command, Field Operating Agency, Direct Reporting Unit, or InstallationCommander.   With the exception of those uses specifically delegated to another decision author-ity, major commands (MAJCOMs), field operating agencies (FOAs), direct reporting units(DRUs) and installation commanders or designated representatives have the authority to approveor disapprove civil aircraft landing permit applications (DD Forms 2400, Civil Aircraft Certificateof Insurance; 2401; Civil Aircraft Landing Permit, and 2402, Civil Aircraft Hold Harmless Agree-ment) at airfields for which they hold oversight responsibilities.  Additionally, for expeditious han-dling of short notice requests, they may grant requests for one-time, official Government businessflights that are in the best interest of the US Government and do not violate other provisions of thisinstruction.  As a minimum, for one-time flights authorized under this paragraph, the aircraftowner or operator must provide the decision authority with insurance verification and a completedDD Form 2402 before the aircraft operates into the Air Force airfield.  Air Force authority toapprove civil aircraft use of Air Force airfields on foreign soil may be limited.  Commanders out-side the US must be familiar with base rights agreements or other international agreementsthat may render inapplicable, in part or in whole, provisions of this instruction.  Decisionauthority is delegated for specific purposes of use and or locations as follows:2.4.2.1.  Commander, 611th Air Operations Group (AOG). The Commander, 611th AOGor a designated representative may approve commercial charters, on a case-by-case basis, atall Air Force airfields in Alaska, except Eielson and Elmendorf AFBs, if the purpose of thecharter is to transport goods and or materials, such as an electric generator or constructionmaterials for a community center, for the benefit of remote communities that do not have ade-quate civil airports.2.4.2.2.  Commander, Air Mobility Command (AMC).   The Commander, AMC or a desig-nated representative may approve permits that grant landing rights at Air Force airfieldsworldwide in support of AMC contracts.2.4.2.3.  US Defense Attache Office (USDAO).   The USDAO, acting on behalf of HQUSAF/XOOBC, may grant a request for one-time landing rights at an Air Force airfield pro-vided:• The  request  is  for  official  Government  business  of  either  the  US  or  the  country  towhich the USDAO is accredited.• The Air Force airfield is located within the country to which the USDAO is accredited.• Approval will not violate any agreement with the host country.• The installation commander concurs.• The USDAO has a properly completed DD Form 2402 on file and has verified that theinsurance coverage meets the requirements of Table 2.before the aircraft operates intothe Air Force airfield.3.  Aircraft Exempt From the Requirement for a Civil Aircraft Landing Permit:3.1.  Any aircraft owned by:• Any other US Government agency.6AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995• US Air Force aero clubs established as prescribed in AFI 34-117, Air Force Aero Club Pro-gram, and AFMAN 3-132, Air Force Aero Club Operations.  NOTE:  This includes aircraftowned by individuals but leased by an Air Force aero club.• Aero clubs of other US military services.  NOTE:  This includes aircraft owned by individualsbut leased by Army or Navy aero clubs.• A US state, county, municipality, or other political subdivision, when operating to supportofficial business at any level of Government.3.2.  Any civil aircraft under:• Lease or contractual agreement for exclusive US Government use on a long-term basis andoperated on official business by or for a US Government agency; for example, the FederalAviation Administration (FAA), Department of the Interior, or Department of Energy.  NOTE:The Government must hold liability responsibility for all damages or injury associated withoperation of the aircraft.• Lease or contractual agreement to the Air Force for Air Force Civil Air Patrol (CAP) liaisonpurposes and operated by an Air Force CAP liaison officer on official Air Force business.• CAP control for a specific mission directed by the Air Force.• Coast Guard control for a specific mission directed by the Coast Guard.  NOTE: For identifi-cation purposes, the aircraft will be marked with a sticker near the port side door identifying itas a Coast Guard Auxiliary aircraft.  The pilot will always be in uniform and normally have acopy  of  a  Coast  Guard  Auxiliary  Patrol  Order.    If  the  aircraft  is  operating  under  "verbalorders of the commander," the pilot can provide the telephone number of the cognizant CoastGuard commander• Contractual agreement to any US, State, or local Government agency in support of operationsinvolving safety of life or property as a result of a disaster.• Government furnished property or bailment contract for use by a contractor, provided the fed-eral, state, or local Government has retained liability responsibilities.• Civil aircraft transporting critically ill or injured individuals or transplant organs to or from anAir Force installation.• Historic aircraft being delivered for Air Force museum exhibits under the provisions of AFI84-103, Museum System.4.  Conditions for Use of Air Force  Airfields.  The Air Force authorizes use of its airfields for a spe-cific purpose by a named individual or company.  The authorization cannot be transferred to a second orthird party and does not extend to use for other purposes.  An approved landing permit does not obligatethe Air Force to provide supplies, equipment, or facilities other than the landing, taxiing, and parkingareas. The aircraft crew and passengers are only authorized activities at the installation directly related tothe purpose for which use is granted.  All users are expected to submit their application (DD Forms 2400,2401, and 2402) at least 30 days before intended use and, except for use as a weather alternate, CRAFalternate, or emergency landing site, must contact the appropriate installation commander or a designatedrepresentative for final landing approval at least 24 hours before arrival. Failure to comply with eithertime limit may result in denied landing rights.AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199575.  Application Procedures.   To allow time for processing, the application (DD Forms 2400, 2401, and2402) and a self-addressed, stamped envelope should be submitted at least 30 days before the date of thefirst intended landing.  The verification specified in Table 1.for each purpose of use must be included withthe application.  The name of the user must be the same on all forms. Original, hand scribed signatures,not facsimile elements, are required on all forms.  Landing Permit Application Instructions are at Attach-ment 3.  The user is responsible for reviewing this instruction and accurately completing the forms beforesubmitting them to the approving authority.5.1.  Permit Renewal.   When a landing permit expires, DD Forms 2401 and 2400 must be resubmit-ted for continued use of Air Force airfields.  Note:   Corporations must resubmit the DD Form 2402every five years. 6.  Purpose of Use.   The purposes of use normally associated with civil aircraft operations at Air Forceairfields are listed in Table 1.  Requests for use for purposes other than those listed will be considered andmay be approved if warranted by unique circumstances.  A separate DD Form 2401 is required for eachpurpose of use.  (Users can have multiple DD Forms 2401 that are covered by a single DD Form 2400 andDD Form 2402.)8AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995Table 1.  Purpose of Use/Verification/Approval Authority/Fees.C *Approval Authority D Fees 1 No B Verification Current Government contract numbers; the Air Force airfields required for each contract; a brief description of the work to be performed; and the name, telephone number, and address of the Government contracting officer must be provided on the DD Form 2401 or a continuation sheet. A Purpose of Use RULE 1  Contractor or subcontractor (A).  A US or foreign contractor or subcontractor, operating corporate, personal, or leased aircraft in conjunction with fulfilling the terms of a Government contract.NOTE: Potential contractors may not land at Air Force airfields to pursue or present an unsolicited proposal for procurement of Government business.  One time authorization can be provided when an authorized US Government representative verifies that the potential contractor has been specifically invited for a sales presentation or to discuss their product. 2  Demonstration  (B).  Aircraft, aircraft with components installed, or aircraft transporting components or equipment operating to demonstrate or display a product to US Government representatives who have procurement authority  or certification responsibilities.  (Authority granted under this paragraph does not include aerobatic demonstrations.) Demonstration or display must be a contractual requirement or presented at the request of an authorized US Government representative.  The name, address, and telephone number of the requesting Government representative or contracting officer and contract number must be included on the DD Form 2401. 1 No 3  Aerial performance (BB).  Aircraft performing aerobatics and or fly-bys at Air Force airfields. Approval of MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU and FAA as specified in AFI 35-201, Community Relations. 1 No B Verification 9C *Approval Authority D Fees Social security number in block 1 on DD Form 2401. 1 No Endorsement from member's commander that validates military status and requirement for use of Air Force airfields listed on the DD Form 2401.  The endorsement may be included on the DD Form 2401 or provided separately by letter.  When appropriate, travel orders must be on board the aircraft. DD Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card, number or social security number, identification card expiration date, and a letter of endorsement from sponsor. 1 No 1 No AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 4  Active duty US military and other US uniformed service members with military identification cards (includes members of the US Public Health Service, Coast Guard, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) (C).  Service members, operating their own aircraft, leased aircraft, or other available aircraft for official duty travel (temporary duty, permanent change of station, etc.) or for private, non-revenue flights. 5  Reserve Forces (D).  Members of the US Reserve Forces (including Reserve Officer Training Corps and National Guard) operating their own aircraft, leased aircraft, or other available aircraft to fulfill their official duty commitment at the installation where their unit is assigned and other installations for temporary duty assignments. 6  Dependents of active duty US military personnel, other US uniformed service personnel, (CC), or US Reserve Forces personnel (DD).  Dependents operating their own aircraft, leased aircraft, or other available aircraft in conjunction with activities related to entitlements as a dependent of a uniformed service member. 10AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 7  US Government civil service employees (E).  Civilian employees of the US Government operating their own aircraft, leased aircraft, or other available aircraft for official Government business travel. 8  Retired US military members and other retired US uniformed service members with a military identification card that authorizes use of the commissary, base exchange, and or military medical facilities (G).  Retired Service members, operating their own aircraft, leased aircraft, or other available aircraft in conjunction with activities related to retirement entitlements authorized by law or regulation. 9  Dependents of retired US military personnel and other retired US uniformed service personnel (GG).  Dependents of retired Service members operating their own aircraft, leased aircraft, or other available aircraft in conjunction with activities related to entitlements authorized by law or regulation as a dependent of a retired Service member. 10  Civil Air Patrol (CAP) (H).  CAP members operating personal or CAP aircraft for official CAP activities. B Verification Supervisor's endorsement in block 4 of the DD Form 2401.  Individual must have a copy of current travel orders or other official travel certification available for verification if requested by an airfield manager or a designated representative. Copy of retirement orders  on file with the approving authority. C *Approval Authority D Fees 1 No 1 No DD Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card, number or social security number, identification card expiration date, sponsor's retirement orders, and letter of endorsement from sponsor. 1 No Endorsement of the application by HQ CAP-USAF/XOO, 105 South Hansell Street, Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6332. 1 No B Verification Membership validation by the aero club manager on the DD Form 2401. Certification of scheduled air carrier status, such as the US Department of Transportation Fitness Certificate. 11C *Approval Authority D Fees 6 1 No Yes AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 11  Aero club members (I).  Individuals operating their own aircraft at the Air Force airfield where they hold active aero club membership. 12  Weather alternate (J).  An Air Force airfield identified on a scheduled air carrier's flight plan as an alternate airport as prescribed by Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs) or equivalent foreign Government regulations.  The airfield can only be used if weather conditions develop while the aircraft is in flight that preclude landing at the original destination.  Aircraft may not be dispatched from the point of departure to an Air Force airfield designated as an approved weather alternate. NOTE: Scheduled air carriers are defined at Attachment 1.  Only those airfields identified on the list at Attachment 2 are available for use as weather alternates.  Airfields may not be used as alternates for non-scheduled operations.  Passengers and cargo may not be offloaded, except with the approval of the installation commander when there is no other reasonable alternative.  Boarding new passengers and or loading new cargo is not authorized.12AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995C *Approval Authority D Fees 3 No 2 1 Yes No 1 No A Purpose of Use RULE 13  Air Mobility Command (AMC) contract or charter (K).  An air carrier transporting passengers or cargo under the terms of an AMC contract.  (Landing permits for this purpose are processed by HQ AMC/DOKA, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 3A1,  Scott AFB IL 62225-5302.) 14  CRAF alternate (KK).  An Air Force airfield used as an alternate airport by air carriers that have contracted to provide aircraft for the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF).  15  US Government contract or charter operator (L).  An air carrier transporting passengers or cargo for a US Government department or agency other than US military departments.  16  Contractor or subcontractor charter (M).  Aircraft chartered by a US or foreign contractor or subcontractor to transport personnel or cargo in support of a current Government contract. B Verification International flights must have an AMC Form 8, Civil Aircraft Certificate, on board the aircraft.  Domestic flights must have either a Certificate of QUICK-TRANS (Navy), a Certificate of Courier Service Operations (AMC), or a Certificate of Intra-Alaska Operations (AMC) on board the aircraft. Participant in the CRAF program and authorized by contract. The chartering agency and name, address, and telephone number of the Government official procuring the transportation must be listed in block 4 of the DD Form 2401. An official Government document, such as an SF 1169, US Government Transportation Request, must be on board the aircraft to substantiate that the flight is operating for a US Government department or agency. The contractor or subcontractor must provide written validation to the decision authority that the charter operator will be operating on their behalf in fulfilling the terms of a Government contract, to include current Government contract numbers and contract titles or brief description of the work to be performed; the Air Force airfields required for use, and the name, telephone number, and address of the Government contracting officer. 13C *Approval Authority D Fees 1 No 2 Note 1 B Verification Military Air Transportation Agreement (MATA) approved by the Military Transportation Management Command (MTMC) (this includes survey and approval by HQ AMC/DOB, 402 Scott Drive, Suite 132, Scott AFB IL 62225-5363).  An SF 1169 or SF 1103, US Government Bill of Lading, must be on board the aircraft to validate the operation is for the military departments as specified in AFJI 24-211, Defense Traffic Management Regulation.  (Passenger charters arranged by the MTMC are assigned a commercial air movement (CAM) or civil air freight movement number each time a trip is awarded.  Installations will normally be notified by message at least 24 hours before a pending CAM.) Except for White House Press Corps charters, concurrence of the installation commander, base operations officer, and public affairs officer.  AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 17  DOD charter (N).  Aircraft transporting passengers or cargo within the United States for the military departments  to accommodate transportation requirements that do not exceed 90 days. 18  Media (F).  Aircraft transporting representatives of the media for the purpose of gathering information about a US Government operation or event.  (Except for the White House Press Corps, use will be considered on a case-by-case basis. For example, authorization is warranted if other forms of transportation preclude meeting a production deadline or such use is in the best interest of the US Government. DD Forms 2400 and 2402 should be on file with HQ USAF/XOOBC to ensure prompt telephone approval for validated requests.) 14AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995B Verification C *Approval Authority D Fees 2 2 5 Yes Yes Yes Application must cite the applicable FAR, describe the test, and include the name and telephone number of the FAA certification officer. Statement of Capability Number or Cooperative Research and Development Agreement Number, and name and telephone number of the Air Force official who approved support of the test project. Unavailability of: a.  a suitable civil airport, b.  aircraft that could operate into the local civil airport, or c.  other modes of transportation that would reasonably satisfy the transportation requirement. A Purpose of Use RULE 19  Commercial aircraft certification testing required by the FARs that only involves use of normal flight facilities (P). 20  Commercial development testing at Air Force flight test facilities (Q) as described in AFI 99-101, Development Test & Evaluation.  21  Commercial charter operations (R).  Aircraft transporting passengers or cargo for hire for other than US military departments.NOTE: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification is required for airfields used by carriers certified under FAR, Part 121 (passenger aircraft that exceed 30 passenger seats). HQ USAF/XOOBC will request that FAA issue an airport operating certificate under FAR, Part 139, as necessary.  Exceptions to the requirement for certification are Air Force airfields used for: a.  Emergencies. b.  Weather alternates. c.  Air taxi operations under FAR, Part 135.  NOTE:  This is currently under review.  Anticipate a change that will eliminate the air taxi exemption. d. Air carrier operations in support of contract flights exclusively for the US military departments.15C *Approval Authority D Fees 2 4 Yes Note 2 B Verification Memorandum of Understanding approved by HQ USAF/XOOBC that establishes conditions and responsibilities in conducting the training flights. The verification will vary with the purpose for use.  For example, when use is requested in conjunction with events such as meetings or ceremonies, the applicant must provide the name and telephone number of the Government project officer. Memorandum of Understanding, Letter of Agreement, or lease that establishes responsibilities and conditions for use. 2 Yes AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 22  Commercial air crew training flights (S).  Aircraft operated by commercial air carrier crews for the purpose of maintaining required proficiency. 23  Private, non revenue producing flights (T).  Aircraft operating for a variety of reasons, such as transporting individuals to meet with Government representatives or participate in Government sponsored ceremonies and similar events.  At specified locations, the purpose of use may be to gain access to collocated private sector facilities as authorized by lease, agreement, or contract. 24  Provisional airfield (U).  An Air Force airfield used by civil aircraft when the local civil airport is temporarily unavailable, or by a commercial air carrier operating at a specific remote location to provide commercial air transportation for local military members under the provisions of a lease or other legal instrument. 25  Foreign Government charter (V).  Aircraft chartered by a foreign Government to transport passengers or cargo. Application must include name and telephone number of the foreign Government representative responsible for handling the charter arrangements. 2 Note 3 16AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 26  Flights transporting foreign military sales (FMS) material (W). (Hazardous, oversized, or classified cargo only.)  27  Certified flight record attempts (X).  Aircraft operating to establish a new aviation record. B Verification FMS case number, requisition numbers, delivery term code and information as specified below:  a.  Description of cargo (nomenclature and or proper shipping name). The description of hazardous cargo must include the Department of Transportation exemption number, hazard class, number of pieces, and net explosive weight.  b.  Name, address, and telephone number of individual at Air Force base that is coordinating cargo handling and or other required terminal services.  c.  Cargo to be loaded or off loaded must be equipped with sufficient cargo pallets and or tiedown materials to facilitate handling.  Compatible 463L pallets and nets will be exchanged on a one-for-one basis for serviceable units.  Nonstandard pallets and nets cannot be exchanged; however, they will be used to buildup cargo loads after arrival of the aircraft.  Aircraft arriving without sufficient cargo loading and tiedown devices must be floor loaded and the aircraft crew will be responsible for purchasing the necessary ropes, chains, and so forth.  d.  US Government FMS case management agency to which costs for services rendered are chargeable.  e. Name, address, and telephone number of freight forwarder. f.  Name, address, and telephone number of shipper. Documentation that will validate National Aeronautic Association or Federation Aeronautique Internationale sanction of the record attempt. C *Approval Authority D Fees 2 Note 3 2 Yes B Verification The Secret Service must confirm that use has been requested in support of its security responsibilities. 17C *Approval Authority D Fees 2 Yes AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A Purpose of Use RULE 28  Political candidates (Y).  (For security reasons only)  Aircraft either owned or chartered explicitly for a Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate, including not more than one accompanying overflow aircraft for the candidate's staff and press corps.  Candidate must be a Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate who is being furnished protection by the US Secret Service.  Aircraft clearance is predicated on the Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate being aboard one of the aircraft (either on arrival or departure).  Normal landing fees will be charged.  To avoid conflict with US statutes and Air Force operational requirements, and to accommodate expeditious handling of aircraft and passengers, the installation commander will:      a. Provide minimum official welcoming party.      b.  Not provide special facilities.      c.  Not permit political rallies or speeches on the installation.    d.  Not provide official transportation to unauthorized personnel, such as the press or local populace. 29  Aircraft either owned or personally chartered for transportation of the President, Vice President, a past President of the United States, the head of any US federal department or agency, or a member of the Congress (Z).  Use by other than the President or Vice President must be for official Government business.  All requests will be coordinated with the Office of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) as prescribed in AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress.2 No 18AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995*Approving Authority:1 = Can be approved at all levels2 = HQ USAF/XOOBC3 = HQ AMC/DOKA4 = Except as specifically delegated in paragraphs 2.4.2. and 2.4.2.3., must be approved by HQ USAF/XOOBC5 = Except as specifically delegated in paragraph 2.4.2.1. ,  must be approved by HQ USAF/XOOBC6 = Policy concerning private aircraft use of aero club facilities varies from base to base, primarily due tospace limitations and military mission requirements.  Therefore, applications for use of aero club facili-ties must be processed at base level.NOTES:1.  Landing fees are charged for White House Press Corps flights.  Landing fees are not charged if the AirForce has invited media coverage of specific events.2.  Landing fees are charged if flight is not operating in support of official Government business.3.  Landing fees are charged unless US Government charters have reciprocal privileges in the foreigncountry.7.  Insurance Requirements.  Applicants must provide proof of third-party liability insurance on a DDForm 2400, with the amounts stated in US dollars.  The policy number, effective date, and expiration dateare required.  The statement "until canceled" may be used in lieu of a specific expiration date.  The geo-graphic coverage must include the area where the Air Force airfield of proposed use is located.  If severalaircraft or aircraft types are included under the same policy, a statement such as "all aircraft owned," "allaircraft owned and or operated," "all non-owned aircraft," or "all aircraft operated," may be used in lieu ofaircraft registration numbers.  To meet the insurance requirements, either split limit coverage for bodilyinjury (individuals outside the aircraft), property damage, and passengers, or a single limit coverage isrequired.  The coverage will be at the expense of the user with an insurance company acceptable to the AirForce.  Coverage must be current during the period the Air Force airfield will be used.  The liabilityrequired is computed on the basis of aircraft maximum gross takeoff weight (MGTOW) and passenger orcargo configuration.  Minimum coverage will not be less than the amount indicated in Table 2. AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199519 Coverage For  Bodily Injury Aircraft Maximum Gross Takeoff Weight Table 2.   Aircraft Liability Coverage Requirements. R U L E 1  12,500 Pounds (MGTOW)  Property Damage  Passenger and Under Each Person Each Accident $  100,000 $  300,000 ---------- $100,000 2  More than 12,500 Pounds Each Person Each Accident $  100,000 $1,000,000 ---------- $1,000,000 $100,000 $100,000 multiplied by the number of passenger seats $100,000 $100,000 multiplied by 75% multiplied by the number of passenger seats 7.1.  Any insurance presented as a single limit of liability or a combination of primary and excess cov-erage will be an amount equal to or greater than the each accident minimums indicated in Table 2. forbodily injury (individuals outside the aircraft), property damage, and passengers.7.2.  The policy will specifically provide that:• The insurer waives any right of subrogation it may have against the US by reason of any pay-ment made under the policy for injury, death, or property damage that might arise, out of or inconnection with the insured's use of any Air Force airfield.•• The insurance afforded by the policy applies to the liability assumed by the insured under DDForm 2402.If the insurer or the insured cancels or reduces the amount of insurance afforded under thelisted policy before the expiration date indicated on DD Form 2400, the insurer will send writ-ten notice of policy cancellation or coverage reduction to the Air Force approving authority atleast 30 days before the effective date of the cancellation or reduction.  The policy must statethat any cancellation or reduction will not be effective until at least 30 days after such notice issent.8.  Processing a Permit Application.   Upon receipt of an application (DD Forms 2400, 2401, and 2402)for use of an Air Force airfield, the decision authority:8.1.  Determines the availability of the airfield and its capability to accommodate the purpose of userequested.8.2.  Determines the validity of the request and ensures all entries on DD Forms 2400, 2401, and 2402are in conformance with this instruction.8.3.  Approves DD Form 2401 (with conditions or limitations noted) by completing all items in Sec-tion II - For Use by Approving Authority as follows:20AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 19958.3.1.  Period of Use (Block 7).  The "From" date will be either the first day of approved use or thefirst day of insurance coverage.  The "From" date cannot precede the first day of insurance cover-age shown on the DD Form 2400.  The "Thru" date is determined by the insurance expiration dateand or the purpose of use.  For example, the period of use for participants in an Air Force openhouse will be determined by both insurance coverage and open house dates.  The permit would beissued only for the duration of the open house but must not precede or exceed the dates of insur-ance coverage.  Many insurance policies terminate at noon on the expiration date.  Therefore, ifthe insurance expiration is used to determine the permit expiration date, the landing permit willexpire one day before the insurance expiration date shown on the DD Form 2400.  If the insuranceexpiration date either exceeds 2 years or is indefinite (for example, "until canceled"), the landingpermit will expire 2 years from the issue date or first day of coverage.8.3.2.  Frequency of Use (Block 8) is normally "as required" but may be more specific, such as"one time."8.3.3.  Identification Number (Block 9).  Installation commanders or a designated representativeassign a permit number comprised of the last three letters of the installation's International CivilAviation Organization identifier code, the last two digits of the calendar year, a number sequen-tially assigned, and the letter suffix that indicates the purpose of use (Table 1.); for example,ADW 95-01C.  MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, and USDAOs use a three position organization abbre-viation; such as AMC 95-02K.8.3.4.  DD Form 2400 (Dated and Filed) (Block 11a).  This block should contain the date fromblock 1 (Date Issued) on the DD Form 2400 and the identification of the unit or base where theform was approved; i.e., 30 March 1995, HQ USAF/XOOBC.8.3.5.  DD Form 2402 (Dated and Filed) (Block 11b).  This block should contain the date fromblock 4 (Date Signed) on the DD Form 2402 and the identification of the unit or base where theform was approved; i.e., 30 March 1995, HQ USAF/XOOBC.8.3.6.  SA-ALC/SFR, 1014 Andrews Road, Building 1621, Kelly AFB TX 78241-5603 publishesthe list of companies authorized to purchase Air Force fuel on credit. Block 12 should be marked"yes" only if the permit holder's name appears on the SA-ALC list.8.3.7.  Landing Fees, Block 13, should be marked as indicated in Table 1.8.3.8.  Permit Amendments.  New entries or revisions to an approved DD Form 2401 may be madeonly by or with the consent of the approving authority.8.4.  Provides the applicant with written disapproval if:• Use will interfere with operations, security, or safety.• Adequate civil facilities are collocated.•Purpose of use is not official Government business and adequate civil facilities are availablein the proximity of the requested Air Force airfield.• Use will constitute competition with civil airports or air carriers.• Applicant has not fully complied with this instruction.8.5.  Distributes the approved DD Form 2401 before the first intended landing, when possible, as fol-lows:AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199521• Retains original.• Returns two copies to the user.•Provides a copy to HQ USAF/XOOBC.  NOTE:  HQ USAF/XOOBC will provide a computerreport of current landing permits to the MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, and installations.9.  Civil Fly-Ins.   Civil aircraft operators may be invited to a specified Air Force airfield for:• A base open house to perform or provide a static display.• A flying safety seminar.9.1.  Civil Fly-In Procedures:9.1.1.  The installation commander or a designated representative:• Requests approval from the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU with an information copy to HQUSAF/XOOBC/XOOO and SAF/PAC.• Ensures that DD Form 2402 is completed by each user.  NOTE:  DD Forms 2400 and2401 are not required for fly-in participants if flying activity consists of a single landingand takeoff with no spectators other than flightline or other personnel required to supportthe aircraft operations.9.1.2.  The MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU ensures HQ USAF/XOOBC/XOOO and SAF/PAC areadvised of the approval or disapproval for the fly-in.NOTE: Aerial performance by civil aircraft requires MAJCOM or FOA approval and an approved land-ing permit as specified in AFI 35-201, Community Relations. Regardless of the aircraft's historic militarysignificance, DD Forms 2400, 2401, and 2402 must be submitted and approved before the performance.The permit can be approved at MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or installation level.  Use will be authorized onlyfor the period of the event.  Fly-in procedures do not apply to aircraft transporting passengers (revenue ornon-revenue) for the purpose of attending the open house or demonstration flights associated with market-ing a product.10.  Unauthorized Landings:10.1.  Unauthorized Landing Procedures. The installation commander or a designated representa-tive will identify an unauthorized landing as either an emergency landing, an inadvertent landing, oran intentional landing.  An unauthorized landing may be designated as inadvertent or intentionalwhether or not the operator has knowledge of the provisions of this instruction, and whether or not theoperator filed a flight plan identifying the installation as a destination.  Aircraft must depart the instal-lation as soon as practical.  On all unauthorized landings, the installation commander or a designatedrepresentative:10.1.1.  Informs the operator of AFI 10-1001 procedures and the requirement for notifying theFederal Aviation Administration (FAA) as specified in Section 6 of the FAA Airman's InformationManual.10.1.2.  Notifies the Federal Aviation Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) by telephone ortelefax, followed by written notification using FAA Form 8020-9, 8020-11, or 8020-17, as appro-priate.  A copy of the written notification must be provided to HQ USAF/XOOBC.22AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199510.1.3.  Ensures the operator completes a DD Form 2402, and collects applicable charges.  (Insome instances, it may be necessary to arrange to bill the user for the appropriate charges.)  DDForm 2402 need not be completed for commercial carriers if it is known that the form is alreadyon file at HQ USAF/XOOBC.10.1.4.  In a foreign country, notifies the local US Defense Attache Office (USDAO) by telephoneor telefax and, where applicable, the appropriate USDAO in the country of aircraft registry, fol-lowed by written notification with an information copy to HQ USAF/XOOBC and the civil avia-tion authority of the country or countries concerned.10.2.  Emergency Landings.   Any aircraft operator who experiences an inflight emergency mayland at any Air Force airfield without prior authorization (approved DD Form 2401 and 24 hoursprior notice).  An inflight emergency is a situation that makes continued flight hazardous.10.2.1.  The Air Force will use any method or means to clear an aircraft or wreckage from the run-way to preclude interference with essential military operations after coordinating with the FSDOand National Transportation Safety Board.  Removal efforts will minimize damage to the aircraftor wreckage; however, military or other operational factors may be overriding.10.2.2.  An operator making an emergency landing:10.2.2.1.  Is not charged a landing fee.10.2.2.2.  Pays all costs for labor, material, parts, use of equipment and tools, and so forth, toinclude, but not limited to:Spreading foam on the runway.•• Damage to runway, lighting, and navigation aids.• Rescue, crash, and fire control services.• Movement and storage of aircraft.••Performance of minor maintenance.Fuel or oil (AFM 67-1, vol 1, part three, chapter 1, Air Force Stock Fund and DPSCAssigned Item Procedures).10.3.  Inadvertent Unauthorized Landings:10.3.1.  The installation commander or a designated representative may determine a landing to beinadvertent if the aircraft operator:• Landed due to flight disorientation.• Mistook the Air Force airfield for a civil airport.10.3.2.  Normal landing fees  must be charged and an unauthorized landing fee may beassessed to compensate the Government for the added time, effort, and risk involved in the inad-vertent landing.  Only the unauthorized landing fee may be waived by the installation com-mander or a designated representative if, after interviewing the pilot-in-command and appropriateGovernment personnel, it is determined that flying safety was not significantly impaired.  Thepilot-in-command may appeal the imposition of an unauthorized landing fee for an inadvertentlanding to the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU whose decision will be final.  A subsequent inadvertentlanding will be processed as an intentional unauthorized landing.AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 19952310.4.  Intentional Unauthorized Landings:10.4.1.  The installation commander may categorize an unauthorized landing as intentional whenthere is unequivocal evidence that the pilot deliberately:10.4.1.1.  Landed without an approved DD Form 2401 on board the aircraft.10.4.1.2.  Landed for a purpose not approved on the DD Form 2401.10.4.1.3.  Operated an aircraft not of a model or registration number on the approved DD Form2401.10.4.1.4.  Did not request or obtain the required final approval from the installation com-mander or a designated representative at least 24 hours before aircraft arrival.10.4.1.5.  Did not obtain landing clearance from the air traffic control tower.10.4.1.6.  Landed with an expired DD Form 2401.10.4.1.7.  Obtained landing authorization through fraudulent methods, or10.4.1.8.  Landed after having been denied a request to land from any Air Force authority,including the control tower.10.4.2.  Normal landing fees and an unauthorized landing fee must be charged.   Intentional unau-thorized landings increase reporting, processing, and staffing costs; therefore, the unauthorizedlanding fee for 10.4.1.1. through 10.4.1.6. will be increased by 100 percent.  The unauthorizedlanding fee will be increased 200 percent for 10.4.1.7. and 10.4.1.8.10.4.3.  Intentional unauthorized landings may be prosecuted as a criminal trespass, especially if adebarment letter has been issued.  Repeated intentional unauthorized landings prejudice the user'sFAA operating authority and jeopardize future use of Air Force airfields.10.5.  Detaining an Aircraft:10.5.1.  An installation commander in the United States, its territories, or its possessions maychoose to detain an aircraft for an intentional unauthorized landing until:• The  unauthorized  landing  has  been  reported  to  the  FAA,  HQ  USAF/XOOBC,  and  theappropriate US Attorney.• All applicable charges have been paid.10.5.2.  If the installation commander wishes to release the aircraft before the investigation iscompleted, he or she must obtain bond, promissory note, or other security for payment of the high-est charge that may be assessed.10.5.3.  The pilot and passengers will not be detained longer than is necessary for identification,although they may be permitted to remain in a lounge or other waiting area on the base at theirrequest for such period as the installation commander may determine (normally not to exceedclose of business hours at the home office of the entity owning the aircraft, if the operator does notown the aircraft).  No person, solely due to an intentional unauthorized landing, will be detainedinvoluntarily after identification is complete without coordination from the appropriate US Attor-ney, the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU, and HQ USAF/XOOBC.24AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199511.  Parking and Storage.   The time that an aircraft spends on an installation is at the discretion of theinstallation commander or a designated representative but should be linked to the purpose of use autho-rized.  Parking and storage may be permitted on a nonexclusive, temporary, or intermittent basis, whencompatible with military requirements.  At those locations where there are Air Force aero clubs, parkingand storage privileges may be permitted in the area designated for aero club use without regard for thepurpose of use authorized, if consistent with aero club policies.  Any such permission may be revokedupon notice, based on military needs and the installation commander's discretion.12.  Fees for Landing, Parking, and Storage:12.1.  Landing, parking, and storage fees (Table 3. and Table 4.) are determined by aircraft maximumgross takeoff weight (MGTOW).  All fees are normally due and collectable at the time of use of theAir Force airfield.  DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, is used to deposit the fees with the baseaccounting and finance officer. In some instances, it may be necessary to bill the user for chargesincurred.AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995Table 3.  Landing Fees.RULE Aircraft Maximum Gross Takeoff Weight (MGTOW)  Normal Fee   Unauthorized Fee 25  Overseas  Intentional Fee  Minimum Fee United States, Territories, and Possessions $1.50 per 1,000 lbs MGTOW or fraction thereof $1.70 per 1,000 lbs MGTOW or fraction thereof 1 2 3  Up to and including 12,500 lbs 4  12,501 to 40,000 lbs 5  Over 40,000 lbs 6 $100.00 $300.00 $600.00 Fee per Aircraft for Each  24-Hour Period Table 4.  Parking and Storage Fees. RULE 1  $1.00 per 100,000 lbs MGTOW or or Less fraction thereof 2  $2.00 per 100,000 lbs MGTOW or fraction thereof $20.00 X $25.00 X X X X X X X X X Increase unauthorized fee by 100% or 200% Charge Begins  Ramp   Hangar  Minimum Fee 6 hours after landing Immediately X $20.00 X $20.00 12.2.  Fees are not charged when the aircraft is operating in support of official Government businessor for any purpose, the cost of which is subject to reimbursement by the US Government.  Parkingand Storage Fees (Table 4.) are charged if an aircraft must remain beyond the period necessary toconduct official Government business and for all non-official Government business operations.26AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199513.  Aviation Fuel and Oil Purchases.   When a user qualifies under the provisions of AFM 67-1,  vol 1,part three, chapter 1, Air Force Stock Fund and DPSC Assigned Item Procedures, purchase of Air Forcefuel and oil may be made on a cash or credit basis.  An application for credit authority can be filed by sub-mitting an Authorized Credit Letter to SA-ALC/SFRL, 1014 Andrews Road, Building 1621, Kelly AFBTX 78241-5603.14.  Supply and Service Charges.   Supplies and services furnished to a user will be charged for as pre-scribed in AFM 67-1, volume 1, part one, chapter 10, section N, Basic Air Force Supply Procedures, andAFR 177-102, paragraph 28.24, Commercial Transactions at Base Level.  A personal check with appro-priate identification, cashier's check, money order, or cash are acceptable means of payment.  Charges forhandling foreign military sales cargo are prescribed in AFR 170-3, Financial Management and Account-ing for Security Assistance and International Programs.15.  Forms PrescribedDD 2400, Civil Aircraft Certificate of InsuranceDD 2401, Civil Aircraft Landing PermitDD 2402, Civil Aircraft Hold Harmless AgreementBUSTER C. GLOSSON,  Lt General, USAFDCS/Plans and OperationsAFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199527Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMSReferencesAFPD 10-10, Civil Aircraft Use of United States Air Force AirfieldsAFI 34-117, Air Force Aero Club ProgramAFI 35-201, Community RelationsAFI 84-103, Museum SystemAFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with CongressAFI 99-101, Development Test and EvaluationAFJI 24-211, Defense Traffic Management RegulationAFM 67-1, vol 1, part 1, Basic Air Force Supply ProceduresAFM 67-1, vol 1, part 3, Air Force Stock Fund and DPSC Assigned Item ProceduresAFMAN 3-132, Air Force Aero Club OperationsAFR 170-3, Financial Management and Accounting for Security Assistance and International ProgramsAFR 177-102, Commercial Transactions at Base LevelFAR, Part 121, Certification and Operation:  Domestic, Flag, and Supplemental Air Carriers and Com-mercial Operations of Large AircraftFAR, Part 135, Air Taxi Operators and Commercial Operators of Small AircraftFAR, Part 139, Certification and Operations:  Land Airports Serving Certain Air CarriersAbbreviations and AcronymsAFI—Air Force InstructionAFJI—Air Force Joint InstructionAFM—Air Force ManualAFMAN—Air Force ManualAFPD—Air Force Policy DirectiveAFR—Air Force RegulationAMC—Air Mobility CommandAOG—Air Operations GroupCAM—Commercial Air MovementCAP—Civil Air PatrolCRAF—Civil Reserve Air Fleet28AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995DPSC—Defense Personnel Support CenterDRU—Direct Reporting UnitFAA—Federal Aviation AdministrationFAR—Federal Aviation RegulationFMS—Foreign Military SalesFOA—Field Operating AgencyFSDO—Flight Standards District OfficeHQ AMC/DOKA—Headquarters Air Mobility Command, Contract Airlift, Directorate of Operationsand TransportationHQ USAF/XOOBC—Headquarters United States Air Force, Civil Aviation, Bases and Units Division,Directorate of OperationsHQ USAF/XOOO—Headquarters United States Air Force, Operations Group, Directorate of OperationsMAJCOM—Major CommandMATA—Military Air Transportation AgreementMGTOW—Maximum Gross Takeoff WeightMTMC—Military Traffic Management CommandSAF/LL —Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Legislative LiaisonSAF/PAC—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Public Affairs, Directorate for Community RelationsUS—United StatesUSDAO—United States Defense Attache OfficeTermsAircraft—Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designated for navigation of orflight in navigable airspace as defined in the Federal Aviation Act.Airfield—An area prepared for the accommodation (including any buildings, installations, andequipment), landing, and take-off of aircraft.Authorized Credit Letter—A letter of agreement that qualified operators must file with the Air Force topurchase Air Force aviation fuel and oil on a credit basis under the provisions of AFM 67-1, vol 1, partthree, chapter 1, Air Force Stock Fund and DPSC Assigned Item Procedures.Civil Aircraft—Any United States or foreign-registered aircraft owned by non-Governmental entities,and foreign Government-owned aircraft that are operated for commercial purposes.Civil Aviation—All civil aircraft of any national registry, including:• Commercial Aviation--Civil aircraft that transport passengers or cargo for hire.• General Aviation--Civil aircraft that do not transport passengers or cargo for hire.AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199529Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF)—US registered aircraft, certificated under FAR Part 121, obligated bycontract to provide aircraft and crews to the Department of Defense during contingencies or war.DD Form 2400, Civil Aircraft Certificate of Insurance—A certificate that shows the amount ofthird-party liability insurance carried by the user and assures the United States Government of advancenotice if changes in coverage occur.DD Form 2401, Civil Aircraft Landing Permit—A license which, when validated by an Air Forceapproving authority, authorizes the civil aircraft owner or operator to use Air Force airfields.DD Form 2402, Civil Aircraft Hold Harmless Agreement—An agreement, completed by the user,which releases the United States Government from all liabilities incurred in connection with civil aircraftuse of Air Force airfields.Government Aircraft—Aircraft owned, operated, or controlled for exclusive, long-term use by anydepartment or agency of either the United States or a foreign Government; and aircraft owned by anyUnited States state, county, municipality or other political subdivision; or any aircraft for which aGovernment has the liability responsibility.  In the context of this instruction, it includes foreign registeredaircraft, which are normally commercially operated, that have been wholly chartered for use by foreignGovernment heads of state for official state visits.Government Furnished or Bailed Aircraf—US Government-owned aircraft provided to a Governmentcontractor for use in conjunction with a specific contractual requirement.Installation Commander—The individual with ultimate responsibility for operating the airfield and forbase operations (normally a wing or group commander), as determined by the MAJCOM.Loaned Aircraft—US Government-owned aircraft made available for use by another US Governmentagency.  This does not include aircraft leased or loaned to non-Governmental entities.  Such aircraft willbe considered as civil aircraft for purposes of this instruction.Military Aircraft—Aircraft used exclusively in the military services of the US or a foreign Governmentand bearing appropriate military and national markings or carrying appropriate identification.Official Government Business—Activities that support or serve the needs of US federal agencieslocated at or in the immediate vicinity of an Air Force installation, including nonappropriated fundentities.  For elected or appointed federal, state, and local officeholders, official business is activityperformed in fulfilling duties as a public official.Scheduled Air Carrier—An air carrier that holds a scheduled air carrier certificate and providesscheduled service year round between two or more points.Unauthorized Landing—A landing at an Air Force airfield by a civil aircraft without prior authority(approved DD Form 2401 and 24 hours prior notice).User—The person, corporation, or other responsible entity operating civil aircraft at Air Force airfields.30AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995Attachment 2 WEATHER ALTERNATE LIST AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS DESIGNATED FOR WEATHER ALTERNATE USE BY SCHED-ULED AIR CARRIERSAltus AFB OKAndersen AFB, GuamCannon AFB NMDobbins ARB GADyess AFB TXEareckson AFB AK*Eglin AFB FLEielson AFB AKEllsworth AFB SDElmendorf AFB AKFairchild AFB WAGrand Forks AFB NDHill AFB UTHoward AFB PNKadena AB, OkinawaKelly AFB TX*Formerly Shemya AFBKunsan AB, KoreaLangley AFB VALaughlin AFB TXMalmstrom AFB MTMcchord AFB WAMcConnell AFB KSMinot AFB NDMt Home AFB IDNellis AFB NVOffutt AFB NEOsan AB, KoreaPlant 42, Palmdale CATravis AFB CATyndall AFB FLYokota AB, JapanAFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199531Attachment 3 LANDING PERMIT APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONSA3.1.  DD Form 2400, Civil Aircraft Certificate of Insurance.   The insurance company or its autho-rized agent must complete and sign the DD Form 2400.  Corrections to the form made using a differenttypewriter, pen, or whiteout must be initialed by the signatory.  THE FORM CANNOT BE COM-PLETED BY THE AIRCRAFT OWNER OR OPERATOR.  Upon expiration, the DD Form 2400must be resubmitted along with DD Form 2401 for continued use of Air Force airfields.  The DD Form2400 may be submitted to the decision authority by either the user or insurer.A3.1.1.  Block 1,  Date Issued. The date the DD Form 2400 is completed by the signatory.A3.1.2.  Block 2a and 2b, Insurer Name, Address. The name and address of the insurance company.A3.1.3.  Block 3a and 3b. Insured Name, Address.    The name and address of the aircraft ownerand or operator.  (The name of the user must be the same on all the forms.)A3.1.4.  Block 4a, Policy Number(s).   The policy number must be provided.  Binder numbers orother assigned numbers will not be accepted in lieu of the policy number.A3.1.5.  Block 4b, Effective Date.  The first day of current insurance coverage.A3.1.6.  Block 4c, Expiration Date.   The last day of current insurance coverage.  The DD Form 2400is valid until one day before the insurance expiration date.  A DD Form 2400 with the statement "untilcanceled," in lieu of a specific expiration date, is valid for two years from the issue date.A3.1.7.  Block 5, Aircraft Liability Coverage.   The amount of split limit coverage.  All boxes inblock 5 must be completed to specify the coverage for:  each person (top line, left to right) outside theaircraft (bodily injury) and each passenger; and the total coverage per accident (second line, left toright) for: persons outside the aircraft (bodily injury), property damage, and passengers.  IF BLOCK5 IS USED, BLOCK 6 SHOULD NOT BE USED.  All coverages must be stated in US dollars.ALL SEATS THAT CAN BE USED FOR PASSENGERS MUST BE INSURED.  See Table 2.for required minimum coverage.A3.1.8.  Block 6, Single Limit.   The maximum amount of coverage per accident.  IF BLOCK 6 ISUSED, BLOCK 5 SHOULD NOT BE USED.  The minimum coverage required for a combined sin-gle limit is determined by adding the minimums specified in the "each accident" line of Table 2.  Allcoverages must be stated in US dollars. ALL SEATS THAT CAN BE USED FOR PASSENGERSMUST BE INSURED.A3.1.9.  Block 7, Excess Liability. The amount of coverage which exceeds primary coverage.  Allcoverages must be stated in US dollars.A3.1.10.  Block 8, Provisions of Amendments or Endorsements of Listed Policy(ies).  Any modifi-cation of this block by the insurer or insured invalidates the DD Form 2400.A3.1.11.  Block 9a, Typed Name of Insurer's Authorized Representative.   Individual must be anemployee of the insurance company, an agent of the insurance company, or an employee of an insur-ance broker.A3.1.12.  Block 9b, Signature. The form must be signed in blue ink so that hand scribed, original sig-natures are easy to identify.  Signature stamps or any type of facsimile signature cannot be accepted.32AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 1995A3.1.13.  Block 9c, Title.   Self-explanatory.A3.1.14.  Block 9d, Telephone Number. Self-explanatory.A3.1.15.  THE REVERSE OF THE FORM MAY BE USED IF ADDITIONAL SPACE ISREQUIRED.A3.2.  DD Form 2401, Civil Aircraft Landing Permit.   A separate DD Form 2401 must be submittedfor each purpose of use (Table 1.).A3.2.1.  Block 1a.   The name of the owner or operator.  (The name of the user must be the same onall the forms.)A3.2.2.  Block 1b.   This block should only be completed if the applicant is a subsidiary, division, etc,of another company.A3.2.3.  Block 1c.   Business or home address, whichever is applicable, of applicant.A3.2.4.  Block 2.  List the airfields where the aircraft will be operating.  The statement "Any US AirForce Installation Worldwide" is acceptable for users performing AMC and White House Press Corpscharters.  "All Air Force airfields in the CONUS" is acceptable, if warranted by official Governmentbusiness, for all users.A3.2.5.  Block 3.   Self-explanatory.  (Users will not necessarily be denied landing rights if pilots arenot instrument rated and current.)A3.2.6.  Block 4.   Provide a brief explanation of purpose for use.  The purposes normally associatedwith use of Air Force airfields are listed in Table 1.  If use for other purposes is requested, it may beapproved if warranted by unique circumstances.  (The verification specified for each purpose of usemust be included with the application.)A3.2.7.  Block 5.  EXCEPT AS NOTED FOR BLOCK 5C, ALL ITEMS MUST BE COM-PLETED.A3.2.8.  Block 5a and Block 5b.   Self-explanatory.A3.2.9.  Block 5c.   If the DD Form 2400, Certificate of Insurance, indicates coverage for "any air-craft of the listed model owned and or operated," the same statement can be used in block 5c in lieu ofspecific registration numbers.A3.2.10.  Block 5d.   The capacity provided must reflect only the number of crew required to operatethe aircraft.  The remaining seats are considered passenger seats.A3.2.11.  Block 5e.   Self-explanatory.A3.2.12.  Block 5d. A two-way radio is required.  Landing rights will not necessarily be denied forlack of strobe lights, a transponder, or IFR capabilities.A3.2.13.  Block 6a.   Self-explanatory.A3.2.14.  Block 6b.   If the applicant is an individual, this block should not be completed.A3.2.15.  Block 6c.   This block should contain a daytime telephone number.A3.2.16.  Block 6d.   The form must be signed in blue ink so that hand scribed, original signatures areeasy to identify.  Signature stamps or any type of facsimile signature cannot be accepted.AFI10-1001   1 SEPTEMBER 199533A3.2.17.  Block 6e.   Self-explanatory.A3.2.18.  THE REVERSE OF THE FORM MAY BE USED IF ADDITIONAL SPACE ISREQUIREDBLOCKS 7A THROUGH 14C ARE NOT COMPLETED BY THE APPLICANT.A3.2.19.  Blocks 7a and 7b.  The expiration date of a permit is determined by the insurance expirationdate or the purpose of use.  For example, the dates of an air show will determine the expiration date ofa permit approved for participation in the air show.  If the insurance expiration is used to determine thepermit expiration date, the landing permit will expire one day before the insurance expiration dateshown on the DD Form 2400, or 2 years from the date the permit is issued when the insurance expira-tion date either exceeds 2 years or is indefinite (for example, "until canceled")A3.2.20.   APPROVED PERMITS CANNOT BE CHANGED WITHOUT THE CONSENT OFTHE APPROVING AUTHORITYA3.2.21.  DD FORMS 2400 AND 2401 MUST BE RESUBMITTED TO RENEW A LANDINGPERMIT.  (Corporations must resubmit the DD Form 2402 every five years.)A3.3.  DD Form 2402, Civil Aircraft Hold Harmless Agreement.  A form submitted and accepted by anapproving authority for an individual remains valid and need not be resubmitted to the same approvingauthority, unless canceled for cause.  Forms submitted by companies, organizations, associations, etc,must be resubmitted at least every five years.A3.3.1.  Block 2a(1).  This block should contain the user’s name if the applicant is a company.  If thehold harmless agreement is intended to cover other entities of a parent company, their names mustalso be included in this block.A3.3.2.  Block 2a(2).  This block should contain the user’s address if the applicant is a company.A3.3.3.  Block 2b(1).  This block should contain the name of the individual applying for a landing per-mit or the name of a corporate officer that is authorized to legally bind the corporation from litigationagainst the Air Force.A3.3.4.  Block 2b(2).  This block should contain the address of the individual applying for a landingpermit.  A company address is only required if it is different from the address in block 2a(2).A3.3.5.  Block 2b(3).  The form must be signed in blue ink so that hand scribed, original signatures areeasy to identify.  Signature stamps or any type of facsimile signature cannot be accepted.A3.3.6.  Block 2b(4).  The block should only be completed when the applicant is a company, organi-zation, association, etc.A3.3.7.  Block 3a(1).  If the applicant is a company, organization, association, etc, the form must becompleted and signed by the corporate secretary or a second corporate officer (other than the officerexecuting DD Form 2402) to certify the signature of the first officer.  As necessary, the US Air Forcealso may require that the form be authenticated by an appropriately designated third official.A3.3.8.  Block 3a(2).  The form must be signed in blue ink so that hand scribed, original signatures areeasy to identify.  Signature stamps or any type of facsimile signature cannot be accepted.A3.3.9.  Block 3a(3).  Self-explanatory.A3.3.10.  Block 4.  Self-explanatory.