BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-101 21 JUNE 2016 Intelligence INTELLIGENCE CONTINGENCY FUNDS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A2RX  Supersedes:   AFI 14-101, 25 February 2014  Certified by: AF/A2R  (Mr. Alan K. Holt) Pages: 23 This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and  Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Planning,  Resources,  and  Operations.    It  provides  guidance  and procedures  for  executing  the  Air  Force  Intelligence  Contingency  Funds  (ICF)  program.    This publication  applies  to  Regular  Component,  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR),  Air  National  Guard,  and Department of the Air Force (DAF) Civilians.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   Refer recommended changes  and questions about  this publication to  the Office of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.    This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  direct  supplements  are routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Major Commands (MAJCOMs) need to provide a copy to the OPR upon publication.  IAW Air Force Instruction  (AFI)  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,  the  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  Submit  requests for waivers through the chain  of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. 2 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES to includes  changes  due This  publication  has  been  significantly  revised  and  should  be  reviewed  in  its  entirety.    This revision the  US  Air  Force  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Enterprise  Realignment,  specifically  the  establishment  of  an  ISR Numbered  Air  Force,  designated  the  Twenty-Fifth  Air  Force  (25  AF)  that  realigned  the  Air Force  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  Agency  under  Air  Combat  Command (ACC); and the designation of AF/A2RX (Execution Division) as the OPR for this publication.  Additional  changes  include:  adds  Military  Intelligence  Program  (MIP)  Program  Element  Code (PEC)  for  MIP  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT)  ICF  (35183F);  differentiates  between  GDIP (General  Defense  Intelligence  Program)  HUMINT  ICF  and  MIP  HUMINT  ICF  expenditures; introduces the newly published AFI 14-101 Addendum; eliminates Deputy Undersecretary of the Air  Force  for  International  Affairs  as  an  ICF  manager  and  their  reported  Attaché  category  of ICF; eliminates Scientific and Technical  Intelligence category of ICF; prescribes the use of the “ICF  Inventory  Gift  Tracking  List”  spreadsheet  in  lieu  of  the  rescinded  AF  Form  277, Commodity Log; posts change in Consumer Price Index Minimal Value (increased to $375.00 or less);  changes  the  quarterly  ICF  Execution  Report-Field  Activity  reporting  template  and  ICF Incentive  Gift  Inventory  List  template;  delineates  the  process  to  properly  dispose  of  ICF inventory  by  transfer,  turn-in,  or  destruction;  and  clarifies  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the ICF accountable personnel. AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 3 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  Authority  for  Emergency  and  extraordinary  expenses  (E&EE)  is  found  in  Title  10, United  States  Code  (USC),  Section  127  (10  USC  127),  Emergency  and  Extraordinary Expenses.  Section  127(a)  states,  "Subject  to  the  limitations  of  subsection  (c),  and  within  the limitation  of  appropriations  made  for  the  purpose,  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  the  Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DoD), and the Secretary of a military department within his  department,  may  provide  for  any  emergency  or  extraordinary  expense  which  cannot  be anticipated  or  classified."    ICF  expenditures  are  generally  considered  extraordinary  due  to  the confidential  military  purposes;  therefore,  they  cannot  be  processed  through  normal  accounting and  finance  channels.    Section  127(a)  further  states,  "When  it  is  so  provided  in  such  an appropriation, the funds may be spent on approval or authority of the Secretary concerned or the Inspector General for any purpose he determines to be proper, and such a determination is final and conclusive upon the accounting officers of the United States (US).  The Secretary concerned or the Inspector General may certify the amount of any such expenditure authorized by him that he considers advisable not to specify, and his certificate is sufficient voucher for the expenditure of that amount." 4 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SAF/AA).  IAW Headquarters  Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (HAFMD)  1-6,  Administrative  Assistant  to  the Secretary of the Air Force, establishes the annual expenditure limitation for the ICF program and is  responsible  for  overall  management  of  the  expenditure  of  contingency  funds  for  E&EE.  SAF/AA will: 2.1.1.  Provide  funding  allocation,  to  include  administrative  and  fiscal  limitations  to  AF/A2 from within Air Force Operation and Maintenance Appropriations, IAW 10 USC 127 and the National Defense Authorization Act. 2.1.2.  The  office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Resource  Directorate  (SAF/AAR) reviews  quarterly  ICF  Execution  Reports,  certifies  that  ICF  expenditures  are  within  the annual  limitation  authority,  and  extracts  the  summary  data  from  the  ICF  Congressional Report (Part I).  SAF/AAR then consolidates all ICF input into the Exhibit OP-24 Emergency and Extraordinary Expense Limitation outlined in Volume 2A, Chapter 3 of DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DoD FMR). 2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2).  AF/A2 will: 2.2.1.  Establish procedures to expend, manage, and account for ICF funds, and exercise final approval authority on all ICF issues contained in this instruction. 2.2.2.  Approve  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)/Field  Operating  Agency  (FOA)  annual  ICF operating budgets, as appropriate. 2.2.3.  Review quarterly ICF Execution Reports. 2.2.4.  Review ICF audit reports and take corrective actions, if appropriate. 2.2.5.  Perform periodic reviews of MAJCOM/FOA ICF programs to ensure users follow ICF controls. 2.3.  Director (AF/A2R).  AF/A2R will: for Intelligence, Surveillance, and  Reconnaissance  Resources 2.3.1.  Perform AF/A2 point of contact (POC) responsibilities for the ICF program. 2.3.2.  Program and manage annual budgets and limitations for ICF resources. 2.4.  Division Chief for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Resources Execution (AF/A2RX).  AF/A2RX will: 2.4.1.  Serve as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the Air Force ICF Program. 2.4.2.  Consolidate  ICF  managers’  quarterly  ICF  Execution  Report-Field  Activity  (Part  II) submissions and submit the consolidated report to AF/A2R and SAF/AAR. 2.4.3.  Provide staff assistance to all ICF managers, as required. AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 5 2.4.4.  Provide program oversight and feedback to MAJCOM/FOAs on omissions and errors in their quarterly reports. 2.5.  ICF  managers.  ICF managers include the AF/A2 and the Senior Intelligence Officers for the  following:    Air  Combat  Command  (ACC);  Pacific  Air  Forces;  United  States  Air  Forces  in Europe-Air  Forces  Africa;  25  AF;  National  Air  and  Space  Intelligence  Center;  and  any  other person designated by AF/A2.  ICF managers will: 2.5.1.  Maintain pecuniary accountability for all expenditures (T-0). 2.5.2.  Ensure  adequate  internal  controls  are  in  place  to  fully  account  for  expenditures, inventory of gifts and distribution of gifts (T-1). 2.5.3.  Appoint  primary  and  alternate  administrators.    See  paragraph  2.6  for  specific  duties.  All appointments will be in writing and clearly state the duties delegated (T-1). 2.5.4.  May  appoint  approving  officials  for  events  costing  less  than  $1,500.00  for  Other Intelligence,  if  required.    All  appointments  will  be  in  writing  and  clearly  state  the  duties delegated (T-1). 2.5.5.  Develop  and  administer  an  ICF  training  program  to  include  the  development  and maintenance of a comprehensive continuity book and self-inspection checklist (T-2). 2.5.6.  Ensure unit personnel have a working knowledge of all applicable instructions (T-3). 2.5.7.  Prepare and forward ICF quarterly reports to AF/A2RX (T-1). 2.5.8.  Manage  and  submit  annual  budget  programs  for  ICF  resources,  unless  otherwise specified in a separate publication (T-1). 2.5.9.  Forward delegation of authority memorandums to AF/A2RX (T-1). 2.5.10.  Appoint an ICF property custodian, if incentive supplies are maintained. 2.5.11.  Publish a local supplement for expense or procedures not covered in this publication (T-3). 2.6.  ICF administrators.  Each ICF manager will designate an individual to administer the ICF program according to this instruction, as well as any applicable MAJCOM/FOA supplements (T-1).  The administrator must be a commissioned officer, non-commissioned officer, or a general schedule  employee  or  excepted  service  equivalent  (GS-09  and  above)  (T-1).    The  ICF administrator  will  be  appointed  in  writing  by  each  respective  ICF  manager  (T-1).    Copies  of appointment memos will be forwarded to AF/A2RX (T-1).  ICF administrators will: 2.6.1.  Serve as primary POC to AF/A2RX (T-1). 2.6.2.  Develop and maintain ICF continuity book and program checklist (T-2). 2.6.3.  Validate  ICF  claims  for  funds  availability  and  correctness  of  authorization  and payment documentation (T-1). 2.7.  ICF  approving  officials.  The  ICF  manager  may  delegate  authority  to  an  ICF  approving official to authorize and approve ICF expenditures.  This individual will be appointed in writing by  the  ICF  manager  (T-1).    Copies  of  appointment  memorandums  will  be  forwarded  to AF/A2RX (T-1). 6 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 2.8.  ICF certifying officials.  ICF certifying officials are resource managers who are appointed in writing by the ICF manager for the purpose of certifying availability of ICF funds.  This does not create pecuniary liability consequences, but may have Anti-Deficiency Act implications IAW DoD  7000.14-R  (FMR)  Volume  5,  Chapter  5,  Section  050202.    This  function  is  separate  and distinct from certifying officers who are responsible for voucher payment certification.  Copies of appointment memos will be forwarded to AF/A2RX (T-1).  ICF certifying officials will: 2.8.1.  Ensure requests for expenditures are properly documented (T-1). 2.8.2.  Ensure funds are available prior to approval (T-1). 2.9.  ICF property custodians.  ICF property custodians will: 2.9.1.  Develop  and maintain a system for managing incentive supplies.    ICF  gift inventory items must be stored in a secure location (T-1).  ICF inventory items may not be commingled with non-ICF gift inventory items (T-1). 2.9.2.  Prepare  and  maintain  a  document  of  authorization  memorandum  and  a  document  of payment memorandum for each incentive supply purchase (to include purchase receipts) (T-1). 2.9.3.  Record and maintain all ICF inventory items in the ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List.  The list will be maintained in the spreadsheet format depicted in Figure 3.2 (T-1). 2.9.4.  Be  appointed  in  writing  by  the  ICF  manager  and  trained  on  inventory  management procedures (T-1). 2.9.5.  Not perform as certifying or approving official for ICF (T-1). 2.10.  Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA).  AFAA performs audits of the AF ICF program when requested by SAF/AA. AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 7 Chapter 3 ICF REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION 3.1.  General  Provisions.  ICF  managers  may  expend  available  funds  for  requirements  that enhance the intelligence mission.  All personnel involved in planning, approving, and conducting ICF functions are required to use prudence and discretion in the use of ICF.  When ICF funds are used, a written statement outlining the reason must be created, to include benefits to be expected from the use of ICF (T-1).  Record all ICF expenditures in the accounting and finance system in PEC 31321F or PEC 35183F, as appropriate. PEC 31321F is used  for authorized and approved GDIP  HUMINT  or  Other  Intelligence  expenses.    PEC  35183F  is  used  for  authorized  and approved MIP HUMINT expenses.  Refer to  AFI 14-101 Addendum,  Intelligence Contingency Funds  Use  in  Support  of  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT)  (S)  for  additional  guidelines  on HUMINT  expenses.    All  organizations  will  have  a  dedicated  Responsibility  Cost  Center (RC/CC), exclusively for ICF (T-1).  Each ICF category (GDIP HUMINT, MIP HUMINT, and Other Intelligence) must be recorded in separate RC/CCs (T-1).  All RC/CCs will be identified to AF/A2RX  for  the  upcoming  fiscal  year  (FY)  no  later  than  the  1st  of  September  in  a memorandum  for  record  (T-1).    A  dedicated  government  credit  card  may  be  used  for  ICF purposes.  In the event that electronic copies of credit card related documents are created, follow the guidelines in paragraph 3.7 (T-3). 3.2.  Document of Authorization and Payment Memorandums.  ICF managers must complete and  maintain  on  file  a  document  of  authorization  memorandum  and  a  document  of  payment memorandum  for  each  ICF  expenditure  (T-1).    The  document  of  authorization  memorandum authorizes the expenditure of ICF funds for the actual event and must be prepared and approved prior to the expenditure of ICF funds (T-1).  After-the-fact approvals will not be granted, unless extenuating  circumstances  are  present  (T-1).    In  such  an  event,  a  rationale  statement  must  be prepared explaining the circumstances that necessitated each after-the-fact approval (T-1).  The document  of  payment  memorandum  authorizes  the  payment  of  ICF  expenses.    These  two memorandums,  along  with  supporting  documentation  (e.g.,  rationale  statements,  waiver approvals, etc.), serve as the cornerstone for ICF audits.  ICF credit card holders must use care when  recording  transactions  to  avoid  the  compromise  of  classified  details  (T-0).    Refer  to paragraph  3.7  of  this  publication;  AFI  33-364,  Records  Disposition—Procedures  and Responsibilities;  AFMAN  33-363;  and  AFI  33-322,  Records  Management  Program,  for guidance  on  creating,  maintaining,  retiring,  and  disposing  of  electronic  and  hard-copy  records (T-1). 3.3.  Rationale Statements.  The ICF manager must prepare and maintain a rationale statement for any deviation from standard guidelines (T-1).  The ICF manager must sign this statement and forward it to AF/A2RX for review as part of Part II-ICF Execution Report-Field Activity (Figure 4.2) (T-1). 3.4.  Incentive Supplies and Gifts.  Items such as plaques, mementos, etc., may be kept on hand to  be  used  for  presentations  as  gifts  or  incentive  awards  to  a  person  that  enhances  Air  Force intelligence activities.   Under no circumstances  will such supplies be given to  US  Government personnel  or  any  other  individual  who  does  not  meet  the  provisions  of  enhancing  Air  Force intelligence activities under an official ICF event.  Under no circumstances may such supplies be 8 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 sold.    The  quantity  on  hand  should  not  exceed  what  is  expected  to  be  distributed  during  the current FY (T-1). 3.4.1.  Incentives  and  gifts  to  a  single  person.    The  aggregate  cost  of  mementos  and  gifts presented to a single person in one year may not exceed the minimal value as established by the  General  Services  Administration  (GSA)  IAW  Title  41—Code  of  Federal  Regulations (CFR),  Section  102-42.10,  Federal  Management  Regulation—Change  in  Consumer  Price Index Minimal Value, and as applicable, Title 22 USC, Section 2694, Limitation on Purchase of  Gifts  for  Foreign  Individuals;    Report  to  Speaker  of  the  House  and  Chairman  of  the Committee  on  Foreign  Relations  of  the  Senate.    Currently,  the  GSA  has  established  the minimal value limit as $375.00.  This amount is based on the Consumer Price Index and is subject to change.  Consult Title 41, CFR, Section 102-42.10 for the most recent authorized amount. 3.4.2.  Individual Purchases of Incentive Supplies or Gifts.  The ICF manager may authorize the purchase of incentive items individually.  When this occurs, the settlement voucher must show  the  item  purchased,  cost,  recipient,  date  of  purchase,  and  purpose  (T-1).    Items  not presented  within  five  calendar  days  must  be  returned  to  the  ICF  property  custodian  or  a rationale  for  holding  the  items  must  be  submitted  to  the  custodian  (T-1).    The  purchase  of each item must be documented in the following two spreadsheets (T-1): 3.4.2.1.  ICF  Incentive  Gift  Inventory  List.    This  list  must  be  created  in  the  format depicted  in  Figure  3.1  (T-1).    As  items  are  purchased,  a  description  of  each  item  is entered into the center column, and the  corresponding  cost  of the item  is entered in  the right-hand column.  In the event that a purchase is made of an item that is already in the inventory, and the price of the newly purchased item differs from the cost already listed in the inventory, a new entry must be created to document new item’s cost (T-1). Figure 3.1.  ICF Incentive Gift Inventory List. 3.4.2.2.  ICF  Inventory  Gift  Tracking  List.    This  list  must  be  created  in  the  format depicted in Figure 3.2 (T-1).  This list includes the quantity of each type of item on hand and tracks the status of each item in the inventory (distributed and received).  When items are  received  (either  purchased  from  each  respective  ICF  manager  or  received  from another  ICF  manager),  the  items  are  tracked  in  the  "Received  From"  column.    When items  are  distributed  (either  given  out  as  part  of  an  ICF  event  or  transferred  to  another ICF manager), the items are tracked in the "Distributed To" column.  AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 Figure 3.2.  ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List. 9  3.4.3.  Inspection  and  Inventory.    Once  each  fiscal  year,  the  ICF  manager  or  ICF administrator  will  appoint  two  disinterested  individuals,  in  writing,  to  conduct  a  physical inspection  and  count  of  the  inventory  (T-1).    The  ICF  manager  or  ICF  administrator  will prepare formal reports due to AF/A2RX not later than 30 calendar days after the end of the fiscal  year  (T-1).    The  inspection  may  not  be  performed  earlier  than  30  September  of  the current fiscal year, nor later than 15 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year (i.e., it must be  performed  between  30  September  and  15  October)  (T-1).    The  inventory  should  be performed  in  one  day,  when  possible.    If  the  ICF  manager  maintains  inventory  at geographically  separated  units  (GSUs),  the  ICF  manager  or  ICF  administrator  will  appoint two disinterested parties, in writing, at each GSU to conduct inventories, and will consolidate their reports into a final MAJCOM/FOA report (T-1).  A memorandum for record is required that certifies that an end-of-year inventory gift count was conducted and signed by both the disinterested   This  annual inspection/inventory  report  is  due  30  calendar  days  after  the  end  of  the  fiscal  year.    If  the annual  inspection/inventory is  accomplished on 30 Sep, it may be submitted in  conjunction with the 4th quarter Part III report.  If the two reports differ due to an ICF event between 1 October  and  15  October, the  annual inspection/inventory report (T-1). the  variation  must  be  explained inspection then individuals  who  conducted the (T-1). in 3.4.3.1.  Physical counts of incentive items must match the information contained in the ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List (Figure 3.2) (T-1). 3.4.3.2.  Proper  posting  and  accounting  are  accomplished  by  cross-referencing  the document of payment memorandum with the ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List (T-1). 3.4.3.3.  A  MFR  that  includes  the  information  in  Figure  3.2  will  be  signed  by  the  two disinterested  individuals  that  conducted  the  inspection,  certifying  that  an  annual inspection/inventory  was  conducted  (T-1).    This  annual  inspection/inventory  report  will also  be  reviewed  and  endorsed  by  the  ICF  manager  and  submitted  to  AF/A2RX  (T-1).  The the  signed  annual inspection/inventory reports on file (T-1).  Refer to paragraph 3.7 for records disposition guidelines. ICF  administrator  must  maintain ICF  manager  or 3.4.3.4.  A  first-in  first-out  (FIFO)  inventory  management  system  is  used  if  more  than one of the same item is in the inventory and the items have different costs (T-1). 3.4.4.  Disposal  of  ICF  Inventory.    ICF  custodians  may  dispose  of  ICF  inventory  due  to excess,  damage,  appearance,  or  other  extenuating  circumstances  by  transfer,  turn-in,  or destruction, provided the action is authorized in writing by the ICF manager.  ICF property will not be given or sold to US Government personnel (T-1).  ICF records must be adjusted 10 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 to  document  disposal  of  ICF  inventory  (T-1).    Regardless  of  the  method  used,  official supporting documentation will be maintained on file with the ICF inventory reports (T-1). 3.4.4.1.  Transfers.    Excess  ICF  inventory  is  transferred  to  other  ICF  custodians  by adjusting  the  ICF  records  based  on  copies  of  shipping  documents  and/or  receiving reports.    Any  such  documents  or  reports  must  be  signed  by  the  ICF  custodian  of  the gaining  organization  (T-1).    Transferred  ICF  inventory  must  be  accounted  for  in  the gaining  organization’s  ICF  inventory  reports  (T-1).   The  gaining  organization customarily pays transportation costs for property it acquires. 3.4.4.2.  Turn-ins.  Outdated and surplus ICF property must be disposed of IAW AFI 34-204,  Property  Management,  and/or  local  supply  procedures  to  the  Defense  Logistics Agency (DLA) Disposition Services for disposal (T-1).  ICF records must be adjusted to document transfers of ICF inventory based on a receipt from DLA Disposition Services that documents the turn-in (T-1). 3.4.4.3.  Destruction.    Unserviceable  or  obsolete  inventory  must  be  destroyed  IAW  AFI 34-204 (T-1).  If guidance in AFI 34-204 does not apply or is not feasible, the inventory should be destroyed as refuse.  When destroying as refuse, the ICF manager will appoint a  disinterested  person  in  writing  to  witness  the  destruction  and  to  prepare  a  written statement,  signed  by  the  custodian  and  witness,  to  verify  that  the  commodity  was destroyed  beyond  the  original  intended  purpose  (T-1).    Once  the  destruction  action  is complete, ICF records must be adjusted to document destruction of ICF inventory based on the signed statement of destruction (T-1). 3.4.5.  Accounting for Lost, Damaged, or Destroyed Property.  Property that is lost, damaged, or  destroyed  may  generally  be  removed  from  accountable  records.    This  action  is accomplished by following the report of survey (ROS) procedures contained in AFMAN 23-220, Reports of  Survey for  Air  Force Property.  ICF managers must initiate a ROS  for any property losses in excess of $75.00 (T-1).  ICF managers must submit a copy of the finalized ROS (DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss) as an attachment to the quarterly Part II-ICF Execution Report-Field Activity (T-1). 3.5.  Liaison Function (also referred to as "Traditional ICF").  ICF managers may authorize ICF to fund liaison functions for persons not employed by the US Government if the presence of these  persons  can  assist  AF  organizations  in  the  performance  of  intelligence-related  activities.  ICF managers may authorize ICF to cover the cost for entertainment, beverages, meals, gifts, and other liaison expenses.  Liaison functions are designated as “ICF Events” and are categorized as “Other Intelligence” in the ICF Execution Report. 3.5.1.  The liaison function must be conducted on a modest basis that complies with socially acceptable  behavior  (T-1).    Invite  only  the  number  of  guests  necessary  to  extend  proper courtesy to the guest(s) of honor.  Ratios of DoD personnel (including spouses or escorts) to non-DoD  guests must be shown in  the request  for approval  to  fund a liaison function  IAW AFI  65-603,  Official  Representation  Funds  (T-1).    When  honoring  guests,  the  following procedures apply: 3.5.1.1.  Functions that involve fewer than 30 persons should not consist of more than 80 percent  DoD  personnel.    Functions  of  30  or  more  persons  should  not  be  more  than  50 percent  DoD  personnel.    In  determining  the  ratio,  do  not  consider  individuals  who  will AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 11 pay  for  their  own  expenses.    Any  deviation  of  more  than  5  percent  requires  that  a rationale statement that justifies the activity is included in the request for approval IAW AFI 65-603 (T-1). 3.5.1.2.  ICF-funded  attendance  by  spouses  of  US  Government  personnel  may  be approved  only  if  their  presence  will  enhance  the  intelligence  activities  (T-1).    For example, this condition may be met when other non-US Government spouses attend.  If spouses  of  US  Government  personnel  are  approved  to  attend  functions  at  ICF  expense, official  documents  stating  how  their  attendance  is  expected  to  enhance  the  intelligence mission must be created and maintained on file for audit purposes (T-1). 3.5.1.3.  ICF-funded attendance by US  government contractors may only be approved if their  presence  enhances  the  intelligence  activities.    If  US  Government  contractors  are approved  to  attend  ICF-funded  activities,  official  documents  stating  how  attendance  by the US Government contractor is expected to enhance the intelligence activities must be created and maintained (T-1).  These documents must be maintained by ICF managers for audit purposes (T-1). 3.5.2.  Approval  Levels.    Approval  levels  are  dependent  upon  dollar  thresholds  and  ICF categories: 3.5.2.1.  Other Intelligence.  The ICF manager, as delegated by the AF/A2, is authorized to  approve  ICF  events  projected  to  cost  between  $1,500.00  and  $3,000.00  within  their respective ICF program (T-1).  Any functions costing under $1,500.00 may be approved by  an  ICF approving official  only  if this authority  has been delegated in  writing by  the appropriate  ICF  manager.    Any  functions  costing  over  $3,000.00  must  be  forwarded  to AF/A2RX for review and comments (T-1). 3.5.2.2.  GDIP  HUMINT  and  MIP  HUMINT.    The  ICF  manager,  as  delegated  by  the AF/A2, is authorized to approve ICF functions projected to cost $10,000.00 or less within their respective ICF program (T-1). 3.5.2.3.  After reviewing requests exceeding approval thresholds, AF/A2RX attaches any comments  it  deems  appropriate,  along  with  a  recommendation  for  approval  or disapproval,  and  forwards  the  documentation  to  AF/A2R.    AF/A2R  makes  the  final decision to approve or disapprove the action. 3.5.3.  The liaison function document of authorization memorandum must contain: 3.5.3.1.  The date, location, and purpose of the function (T-1). 3.5.3.2.  The  intelligence-connected  justification  and  description  of  the  expected  benefit for the projected expenditure (T-1). 3.5.3.3.  The names and titles of US Government personnel and their spouses projected to attend at ICF expense (T-1). 3.5.3.4.  The  names  of  non-US  Government  personnel  and  their  spouses  projected  to attend at ICF expense (T-1). 3.5.3.5.  A  calculation  that  depicts  the  ratio  of  DoD  personnel  (including  spouses  or escorts)  to  non-DoD  guests.    This  calculation  includes  only  personnel  who  receive  the benefit of ICF funds (T-1). 12 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 3.5.3.6.  A statement of how attendance by spouses projected to attend at ICF expense is expected to enhance the intelligence mission (T-1). 3.5.3.7.  An  itemized  list  of  projected  costs  (e.g.,  invitations,  refreshments,  decorations, food, gifts, etc.) (T-1). 3.5.3.8.  A statement that attendees in official travel status have been instructed to claim the meal on their travel vouchers, if appropriate (T-1). 3.5.3.9.  Signatures of the requester, administrator, and approving official or ICF manager (T-1). 3.5.4.  The liaison function document of payment memorandum must contain: 3.5.4.1.  The  names  and  titles  of  US  Government  personnel  and  their  spouses  (if applicable) who actually attended at ICF expense (T-1). 3.5.4.2.  The  names  and  titles  of  non-US  Government  personnel  and  their  spouses  (if applicable) who actually attended at ICF expense (T-1). 3.5.4.3.  Actual  receipts  or  claimant’s  signed  statement  as  to  why  receipts  are  not available if the amount is under $75.00 or a MFR signed by a ICF administrator or ICF approving official (T-1). 3.5.4.4.  The  signatures  of  the  claimant,  administrator,  and  approving  official  or  ICF manager (T-1). 3.5.4.5.  The liaison function document of authorization memorandum (T-1). 3.5.4.6.  An explanation of any expenses not included in the authorization document (T-1). 3.6.  Payment  Vouchers.  Prepare payment vouchers according to local policy provided by the servicing Disbursing  Office.   DoD  FMR  guidelines are  referenced in  Volume 10,  Chapter  12, Paragraph 120319,  “Representation  and Contingencies Fund Use.”  The  ICF administrator and ICF  approving  official  must  sign  the  request  for  payment  memorandum  (T-1).    A  copy  of vouchers paid using ICF funds must be on file and must state, “The expenditures shown on this voucher  were  for  emergency  or  extraordinary  expenses.    The  authorization  for  the  expenditure and  the  supporting  documentation  are  maintained  in  (identify  location  where  documents  are maintained)” (T-1).  If a voucher is not available, a justification must be retained on file (T-1). 3.7.  Maintaining  Records.  Follow  guidance  contained  in  AFMAN  33-363  to  ensure  proper creation  and  maintenance  of  ICF  records.    ICF  documents  must  be  retained  on  file  with associated accounting and finance reports in accordance with the following guidance (T-1): 3.7.1.  ICF  expenditures.    Records  of  expenditures  (paper  or  electronic),  to  include  credit card records, may be destroyed two years after the end of the FY in which they were created, unless  otherwise  directed  in  AFMAN  33-363  and/or  DoD  7000.14-R  (FMR).    Prior  to destruction, all ICF expenditures will be reconciled in the accounting system (T-1).  Destroy paper  records  after  electronic  recordkeeping  copy  has  been  created  and  filed,  or  when  no longer needed for revision, dissemination, or reference, whichever is later. (T-1) 3.7.2.  ICF reports.  May be destroyed three years after the end of the FY in which they were created, unless otherwise directed in AFMAN 33-363 and/or DoD 7000.14-R (FMR). AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 13 3.7.3.  Electronic systems.  Records maintained in electronic systems may be destroyed when the    ICF  administrator  determines  that  the  records  are  superseded,  obsolete,  or  no  longer required for administrative, legal, audit, or other operational purposes. 14 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 Chapter 4 QUARTERLY REPORTS 4.1.  Quarterly  Reconciliation  Goal.  The  goal  of  a  quarterly  reconciliation  is  to  ensure  all transactions  can  be  explained  after  comparing  the  previous  quarter's  end-of-month  balance position  in  the  accounting  system  to  the  current  quarter's  end-of-month  balance  position  in  the accounting  system.    The  reconciliation  also  provides  SAF/AA  with  the  data  and  analysis necessary to complete reports for Congress.  The Inventory value report informs  ICF managers about  the  current  value  of  assets  and  the  need  for  purchasing  any  gifts.    ICF  managers  must maintain  complete  copies  of  the  quarterly  reports  (Parts  I  thru  III)  with  a  copy  of  the  end-of-month balance position in the accounting system for audits and historical purposes (T-1). 4.2.  ICF  Execution  Report.  The  ICF  Program  requires  a  three-part  quarterly  ICF  Execution Report.    Submit  data  requirements  in  this  category  as  prescribed,  or  as  soon  as  possible  after submission  of  priority  reports  (T-1).    The  three  report  parts  are:    Part  I—ICF  Congressional report; Part II—ICF Execution Report-Field Activity; and Part III—ICF Inventory Value Report.  These reports are completed in two phases.  In the first phase, Part I is completed and forwarded to  SAF/AAR.    In  the  second  phase,  Part  II  and  Part  III  are  combined  and  forwarded  to AF/A2RX, with the ICF manager’s signature on Part II of the report. 4.2.1.  Part  I—ICF  Congressional  Report.    Prepare  the  Part  I  report  and  transmit  via memorandum  (electronically  scanned  or  hardcopy)  to  SAF/AAR  and  send  an  information copy to AF/A2RX (T-1).  Part I must be provided to SAF/AAR, even if no ICF funds were spent by the unit during the quarter (T-1).  Submit Part I no later than 18 calendar days after the end of the fiscal quarter (T-1).  Prepare the report in the format depicted in Figure 4.1 (T-1).    Congressional  reports  may  be  reported  electronically  or  by  hard  copy.    Electronic submissions  may  be  accomplished  by  scanning  the  document  and  transmitting  it  to SAF/AAR.  In either case, an information copy must be sent to AF/A2RX (T-1).  The report includes: 4.2.1.1.  Categories  of  obligations  (GDIP  HUMINT,  MIP  HUMINT,  and  Other Intelligence). 4.2.1.2.  The  organization’s  current  FY  legal  limitation  (by  category),  and  calculate percent executed (by category). 4.2.1.3.  Quarterly transactions for obligations by FY and category.  The report includes current FY and prior FY for the quarter. 4.2.1.4.  A calculation of the net change (Current FY – Prior FY) and percentage change (Net Change/Prior FY). 4.2.1.5.  Explanation  of  changes  from  the  prior  year  to  the  current  year  in  the  block labeled “Remarks” by category.  Remarks are optional. AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 15 Figure 4.1.  Part I-ICF Congressional Report.  4.2.2.  Part  II—ICF  Execution  Report-Field  Activity.    AF/A2RX  and  SAF/AA  use  the Execution Report-Field Activity report to monitor the use of current FY ICF throughout the AF.    This  report  is  depicted  in  Figure  4.2.    ICF  managers  must  submit  this  report  to AF/A2RX no later than 25 calendar days after the end of the fiscal quarter (T-1).  AF/A2RX will  review  and  provide  comments  on  each  report  (T-1).    AF/A2RX  will  then  forward  the consolidated  report  to  SAF/AA  no  later  than  45  calendar  days  after  the  end  of  the  fiscal quarter  (T-1).    Use  Figure  4.2,  Report  of  Contingency  Expenditures  to  complete  this requirement  (T-1).    Completion  instructions  for  the  “Report  of  Contingency  Expenditures” template are as follows: 4.2.2.1.  Header  information.    Enter  the  current  reporting  period  and  FY  using  the  date format DD-MMM-YY. 4.2.2.2.  Detail Data.  Record all transaction detail lines, grouped by stage of accounting (Undelivered  Orders  Outstanding  [UOO],  Accrued  Expenditures  Unpaid  [AEU],  and Accrued Expenditures Paid [AEP]) by category for the current FY.  Each data field under columns  A  –  G  must  be  completed  and  fully  explained  (T-1).    Additionally,  enter  sub-total  amounts,  by  category,  for  each  accounting  stage  in  bold  face  font.    Separate  each stage of accounting group with a blank line. 16 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 4.2.2.3.  Summary  Data.    Enter  the  administrator  name,  office  symbol,  phone  number, date of report, command, and printed name of the commander or deputy commander. 4.2.2.3.1.  Block  1.    TOTAL  ACCRUED  EXPENDITURES  PAID  (Disbursements) THIS  REPORTING  PERIOD:    Enter  total  of  the  amounts  shown  under  column  G.  Include  only  those  items  representing  disbursements  during  the  current  reporting period in this total. 4.2.2.3.2.  Block 2.  ACCRUED EXPENDITURES PAID TO DATE (Disbursements):  Enter  the  cumulative  disbursements  to  date.    This  amount  needs  to  agree  with  the cumulative  AEP  reflected  in  the  current  quarter's  end-of-month  balance  position  in the  accounting  system  for  the  same  month  that  the  Report  of  Contingency Expenditures shows as the ending month of the reporting period.   TOTAL  ACCRUED  EXPENDITURES  UNPAID  AND 4.2.2.3.3.  Block  3. UNDELIVERED ORDERS OUTSTANDING:  Enter the cumulative, to date, accrued expenditures unpaid and undelivered orders outstanding. 4.2.2.3.4.  Block 4.  TOTAL OBLIGATIONS:  Enter the cumulative obligations to date (block 2 plus block 3).  This amount needs to agree with the cumulative obligations reflected  in  the  current  quarter's  end-of-month  balance  position  in  the  accounting system for the same month that the Report of Contingency Expenditures shows as the ending month of the reporting period. 4.2.2.3.5.  Block  5.    ICF  MANAGER  QUARTERLY  REPORT  CERTIFICATION STATEMENT:    The  following  statement  needs  to  be  included:    On  DD-MMM-YY, Part  II-ICF  Execution  Report  of  Contingency  Expenditures,  was  completed  and  is maintained in accordance with AFI 14-101.  Contingency funds reflected in column G were  expended  for  the  purpose  set  forth  above  and  no  other  appropriated  or  non-appropriated funds could  be properly  charged.   Expenditures were necessary in the interests of the United States and the United States Air Force. AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 17 Figure 4.2.  Part II-Execution Report-Field Activity.  4.2.3.  Part  III—ICF  Inventory  Value Report.  This  report is  due 25 calendar days  after the end of the quarter (T-1).  It contains a summary of the inventory status and shows the value of the inventory at the beginning of the FY, the cumulative value of items purchased during the reporting period, the cumulative value of items available for presentation, the cumulative value of items that were presented during the reporting period and reflects the total value of the  current  ICF  inventory.    The  format  of  the  ICF  Inventory  Value  Report  is  depicted  in Figure 4.3.  The ICF manager or ICF administrator will report the current inventory value of gifts for each quarter (T-1).  The individual(s) who prepare the report shall: 4.2.3.1.  Fill in Command and end-of-quarter date, ICF Property Custodian and category (T-1). 18 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 4.2.3.2.  Provide a separate report for each category (T-1). 4.2.3.3.  Fill in the beginning balance using the amount that was current as of 1 October for the current FY.  This amount should not change throughout the FY (T-1). 4.2.3.4.  Fill  in  the  cumulative  sum  of  the  purchased  items  for  the  FY.    Any  items purchased in the current quarter will be identified in the Part II—ICF Execution Report-Field Activity (T-1). 4.2.3.5.  Fill  in  the  amount  of  items  available.    This  figure  should  equal  the  sum  of beginning inventory and purchased items (T-1). 4.2.3.6.  Fill in the cumulative value of items issued for the FY (T-1). 4.2.3.7.  Ensure that the last line is the current value of the inventory and is equal to the available items minus issued items (T-1). 4.2.3.8.  Ensure that all the reports are retained on file.  ICF managers that have multiple geographical inventories must report a consolidated inventory value report (T-1). Figure 4.3.  Part III-ICF Inventory Value Report.  AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 19 Chapter 5 AUDITING, REVIEWING AND INSPECTING ACCOUNTS 5.1.  General  Provisions.  All  ICF  accounts  will  be  audited,  reviewed,  and  inspected periodically  to  ensure  the  program  is  administered  according  to  the  procedures  and  guidelines contained in this instruction (T-1). 5.2.  Air  Force  Audit  Agency  (AFAA)  Audits.  In  the  event  that  SAF/AA  requests  that representatives  from  the  AFAA  perform  an  ICF  audit,  the  ICF  manager  must  provide  all requested documents to properly cleared AFAA representatives for the audit (T-2).  AFAA must provide the identities and clearance data of auditors to the ICF manager, in writing, prior to the audit (T-2). 5.3.  MAJCOM/FOA  Inspections.  MAJCOM/FOAs  perform  an  annual ICF  property inspection  on  incentive  supplies  and  other  properties  no  later  than  15  Oct,  as  referenced  in section 3.4.2.  At a minimum, the property inspections must include review of records associated with  the  disposal  of  outdated  and  surplus  ICF  property,  accounting  for  lost,  damaged  or destroyed property and end-of-year inventory reports (T-1).  Inventories must also be performed whenever ICF property custodians change (T-1).  ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 20 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References HAFMD 1-6, Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, 22 December 2014 AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations, 2 April 2004 AFI 14-101 Addendum, Intelligence Contingency Funds Use in Support of Human Intelligence (HUMINT) (S), 4 January 2016 AFI 14-108, Air Force Management of General Defense Intelligence Program (GDIP) Resources, 25 February 2014 AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012 AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 March 2013 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006 AFI 34-204, Property Management, 27 August 2004 AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds, 24 August 2011 AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFMAN 65-604, Appropriation Symbols and Budget Codes, 1 October 2015 Title 10 United States Code, Section 127, Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses, January 3, 2007 DoDD 5143.01, Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)), October 24, 2014 Title 41, CFR 102-42, Utilization, Donation, and Disposal of Foreign Gifts and Decorations, April 17, 2015 DoD FMR Vol 10 Chap. 12 120319 Representation and Contingencies Fund Use, September 2015 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss DD Form 281, Voucher for Emergency or Extraordinary Expense Expenditures Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air Combat Command AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 21 AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance AF/A2R—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Resources AF/A2RX—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Resources Execution Division AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System CFR—Code of Federal Regulations DAF—Department of the Air Force DLA—Defense Logistics Agency DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive E&EE—Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses FIFO—First-in First-Out FOA—Field Operating Agency FMR—Financial Management Regulation FY—Fiscal Year GDIP—General Defense Intelligence Program GSU—Geographically Separated Units HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive HUMINT—Human Intelligence IAW—In Accordance With ICF—Intelligence Contingency Funds ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance MAJCOM—Major Command MFR—Memorandum for the Record MIP—Military Intelligence Program NIP—National Intelligence Program OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 22 AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 POC—Point of Contact PEC—Program Element Code ROS—Report of Survey SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force SAF/AAR—Secretary of the Air Force, Resource Directorate T-0—Tier 0 T-1—Tier 1 T-2—Tier 2 T-3—Tier 3 UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding US—United States USC—United States Code Terms Disinterested  Person—Person  assigned  to  the  organization  who  can  be  relied  upon  to  make  a fair and unbiased evaluation. First-In  First-Out  (FIFO)  Inventory  Management—System of inventory management  seeks to  insure  that  the  purchased  items  are  expended  in  the  order  that  they  were  purchased.    The primary goal is to avoid the accumulation of stagnant and obsolete inventory. General  Defense  Intelligence  Program  (GDIP)—GDIP is  an integrated National  Intelligence Program (NIP) that includes Defense Intelligence Agency, service technical production centers, and  special  collection  activities.  The  GDIP  integrates  and  produces  national  intelligence  for defense  and  national  consumers.  It  is  designed  to  represent  national  defense  intelligence priorities  for  operational  customers,  national  and  defense-wide  collection  management,  all-source  analysis,  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT),  Measurement  and  Signature  Intelligence, information  technology,  Department  of  Defense  Intelligence  Information  System,  Intelligence Data  Handling  System  [IDHS],  and  Joint  Worldwide  Intelligence  Communications  System), other special activities (AFI 14-108). Human Intelligence (HUMINT)—Category of intelligence derived from information collected and provided by human sources. ICF  Administrator—Individual  appointed  in  writing  by  the  ICF  manager  to  administer MAJCOM/FOA ICF program according to this instruction (and local supplement, if applicable).  Serves  as  primary  POC  for  the  Air  Staff;  develops  and  maintains  ICF  continuity  book  and program  checklist;  validates  ICF  claims  for  funds  availability  and  correctness  of  authorization and  payment  documentation.    The  administrator  must  be  a  commissioned  officer,  Non-Commissioned Officer or a General Schedule employee (GS-09 and above or Excepted Service equivalent). AFI14-101  21 JUNE 2016 23 ICF  Approving  Official—Individual  provided  delegation  of  authority  in  writing  by  the  ICF manager to authorize and approve ICF expenditures. ICF Certifying Official—Individual appointed in writing by the ICF manager to ensure requests for expenditures are properly documented and ensures funds are available prior to approval. ICF  Manager—Person  responsible  directly  to  the  AF/A2  for  managing  and  executing  ICF accounts within their MAJCOM/FOA. ICF Property—Supplies and equipment purchased with ICF money. ICF  Property  Custodian—Person  appointed  by  an  ICF  manager  to  account  for  property purchased with ICF money.  This individual cannot be an ICF Approving or Certifying Official. Incentive Supplies—Items purchased or stocked for presentation to non-US Government guests or visitors as gifts. Liaison Function (Traditional ICF)—Official gathering with persons not employed by the US Government  who  can  assist  USAF  organizations  in  the  performance  of  intelligence  missions.  Individuals  are  senior  military  foreign  intelligence  counterparts.    Liaison  functions  are categorized as “ICF events” and are reported in the “Other Intelligence” category of ICF. Military  Intelligence—Collection,  analysis,  production,  and  dissemination  of  information relating  to  any  foreign  military  or  military-related  situation  or  activity  that  is  significant  to military policy-making or the planning and conduct of military operations and activities (DoDD 5143.01). Military  Intelligence  Program  (MIP)—MIP  consists  of  programs,  projects,  or  activities  that support  the  Secretary  of  Defense’s  intelligence,  counterintelligence,  and  related  intelligence responsibilities.  This  includes those intelligence and counterintelligence  programs,  projects,  or activities  that  provide  capabilities  to  meet  warfighters’  operational  and  tactical  requirements more effectively.  Supports Military Intelligence as defined in DoDD 5143.01. National  Intelligence—The  terms  `national  intelligence'  and  `intelligence  related  to  national security'  refer  to  all  intelligence,  regardless  of  the  source  from  which  derived  and  including information gathered within or outside the US, that: pertains, as determined consistent with any guidance  issued  by  the  President,  to  more  than  one  US  Government  agency;  and  that  involves threats  to  the  US,  its  people,  property,  or  interests;  the  development,  proliferation,  or  use  of weapons of mass destruction; or any other matter bearing on US national or homeland security.  As defined in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. National  Intelligence  Program  (NIP)—Supports  National  Intelligence  as  defined  in  the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. Program  Element  Code  (PEC)—A  description  of  a  mission  by  the  identification  of  the organizational entities and resources needed to perform the assigned mission. Resources consist of  forces,  manpower,  materiel  quantities,  and  costs,  as  applicable.  The  program  element  is  the basic building block of the Future Years Defense Program (AFMAN 65-604). Resource Manager—An individual who verifies and validates the funds cited on a commitment or obligation document are accurate and available (DoD FMR Glossary).  