BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-134 21 JUNE 2016 INTELLIGENCE INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS PRODUCTION AND REQUIREMENTS MANAGEMENT     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A2DA   Certified by: AF/A2D  (Brig Gen Thomas W. Geary) Pages: 29  This  publication  implements  Air  Force  (AF)  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  14-1,  Intelligence, Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Planning,  Resources  and  Operations,  and  amplifies guidance  in  AF  Instruction  (AFI)  14-133,  Intelligence  Analysis.    It  is  consistent  with  guidance within  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Directive  (DoDD)  5105.21,  Defense  Intelligence  Agency (DIA),  and  the  Defense  Intelligence  Analysis  Program  (DIAP)  User  Guide,  Intelligence Community  (IC)  Directive  (ICD)  203,  Analytic  Standards,  ICD  204,  National  Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF), ICD 205, Analytic Outreach, ICD 206, Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, ICD 208, Write for Maximum Utility, ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination  or  Retrieval  of  Information  within  the  IC,  DoD  Instruction  (DODI)  5000.02, Operation  of  the  Defense  Acquisition  System,  Chairman,  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  Instruction (CJCSI)  3170.01I,  Joint  Capabilities  Integration  and  Development  System  (JCIDS),  Joint Publication (JP) 2-0, Joint Intelligence, AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, AFI 63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management,  AFI  10-601,  Operational  Capability Requirements Development, and AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-cycle.  This  publication  provides  guidance  and  procedures  on  AF  intelligence  analysis  production  and requirements management in support of internal AF requirements, as an integral complement to the IC for DIAP-focused production, and in support of the annual AF ISR Program of Analysis (POA).  It applies to Regular Component, Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air National Guard (ANG), and Department of the AF Civilians, except where noted otherwise.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management 2 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 System  (AFRIMS).    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.    This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  direct  supplements  are routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Major Commands  (MAJCOMs)  and  Field  Operating  Agencies  (FOAs)  need  to  provide  a  copy  to  the OPR upon publication.  IAW AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, the authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)  numbers  following  the  compliance  statement.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  tier  waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.   Chapter 1— OVERVIEW  1.1.  Requirement – Production Cycle. ...........................................................................  Figure  1.1.  Requirement – Production Cycle. ...........................................................................  1.2.  Production Supporting National Intelligence and IC Requirements. ......................  Chapter 2— ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  2.1. 2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2). .........................................................................................................   Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Strategy, Plans, Policy and Force Development (AF/A2D). .............................................................  2.3.  Chief of the Air Force Analysis Division (AF/A2DA). ..........................................  2.4.  Commander, National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC/CC). ...............  2.5.  MAJCOM Directors of Intelligence (A2) and the AFSPC Director of Integrated Air, Space, Cyberspace and ISR Operations (A2/3/6) will: ....................................  2.6.  Commander, Air Combat Command (COMACC). ................................................  2.7.  ACC Director of Intelligence (ACC/A2). ...............................................................  2.8.  Commanders, AFMC (AFMC/CC), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC), and Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC/CC). ..................................  2.9.  AF Customers of Intelligence Analysis and Production will: .................................  Chapter 3— GENERAL GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES  3.1.  AF-managed Requirements, Analysis, and Production. .........................................  Figure  3.1.  RFI and Analysis/Production Process. ....................................................................  4 4 5 5 7 7 7 7 8 9 11 11 11 11 13 13 13 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Figure  3.2.  RFI and Analysis/Production Process across the AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise. ................................................................................................................  3.2.  IC-managed Requirements, Analysis, and Production. ..........................................  Table  3.1.  DIAP RFI and Production Management Timeline. ................................................  Chapter 4— OTHER GUIDANCE  4.1.  IC Intelligence Governance and Reporting. ............................................................  4.2.  Acquisition Intelligence Production. ......................................................................  Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 2— ISR PRODUCT AND SERVICE LINES    3 16 18 18 20 20 20 21 27 4 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  Requirement – Production Cycle. 1.1.1.  The  five  intelligence  analysis  activities  of  discovery,  assessment,  explanation, anticipation,  and  delivery  operate  in  parallel  with  the  AF  ISR  Planning  and  Direction, Collection,  Processing  and  Exploitation,  Analysis  and  Production,  and  Dissemination (PCPAD)  process  IAW  AFI  14-133.    The  PCPAD  process  is  universally  recognized throughout the IC, described in JP 2-0 and linked to the DoD Joint Capability Area (JCA) of Battlespace  Awareness.    JCAs  provide  a  common  framework  for  defining  intelligence production  needs,  analyzing  production  gaps,  and  planning/programming  for  DoD capabilities.    This  AFI  focuses  on  the  intelligence  analysis  activity  of  delivery  and/or dissemination,  often  referred  to  as  production,  and  defined  as  the  ability  to  develop,  tailor, and  present  intelligence  products  and  services  according  to  customer  requirements  and preferences. 1.1.2.  Requests for Information (RFIs). 1.1.2.1.  Intelligence  analysis  and  production  is  driven  by  leading  questions  or requirements  for  intelligence  to  fill  a  gap  in  knowledge  or  understanding  of  the environment, adversary capabilities, centers of gravity, or intentions.   Questions may be more formal, such as the Key Intelligence Questions (KIQs) from AF and IC Programs of Analysis  (POA),  or  more  informal,  such  as  those  stemming  from  direct,  near-term support  to  operations.    All  questions  are  based  on  an  intelligence  organization’s relationship with its customer and an understanding of its customers’ needs. 1.1.2.2.  Across the AF, DoD, and IC, various terms are used for an intelligence question and/or  requirement,  including  RFI,  request  for  support  (RFS),  intelligence  need, intelligence  requirement,  KIQ,  and  production  requirement  (PR).    Henceforth,  this  AFI will  use  RFI  to  refer  to  all  types  of  intelligence  questions  and/or  requirements.    RFIs range from  informal to  formal and from  verbal  to  formally documented requests.  They originate from an intelligence customer (also  called a consumer) and can come from all AF  or  DoD  echelons,  national  policy  makers,  IC  elements,    commanders,  other intelligence  organizations,  or  counterintelligence  units  such  as  the  Office  of  Special Investigations (OSI). 1.1.3.  Intelligence production is the development, tailoring, and presentation of intelligence knowledge  via  products  and/or  services  that  meet  or  address  customer  requirements.  Production is an all-encompassing term that ranges from formal, published products on one end of the spectrum (e.g., a formal Intelligence Summary) to informal, impromptu updates on the other end (e.g., a location update on a tactical  threat  as a pilot  steps to the aircraft).   In some cases, analysts tailor existing intelligence to address  customer requirements.   In other cases, analysts perform analysis on existing data, information, and intelligence to create new intelligence  and  knowledge.    In  still  other  cases,  analysts  request  collection  of  new  data  to consider in their analysis. AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 5 1.1.4.  Ultimately,  production  culminates  in  at  least  one  intelligence  output  for  a  customer,  completing the cycle as depicted in Figure 1.1.  An output may be an intelligence product or an intelligence service. Figure 1.1.  Requirement – Production Cycle.  1.1.4.1.  An  intelligence  product  is  defined  as  tangible  information  in  written,  visual, digital, and/or verbal form that 1) is intended for the purpose of conveying information of intelligence  value  (e.g.,  written  assessment,  threat  map,  targeting  materials,  database, etc.);  or  2)  facilitates  the  accomplishment  of  an  intelligence  mission  (e.g.,  assessment checklists,  training  folders,  etc.).    While  this  definition  is  sufficiently  broad  to  capture products that both directly and indirectly contribute to mission accomplishment, this AFI focuses on the products that convey information of intelligence value. 1.1.4.2.  An intelligence service is defined as assistance provided to another entity during the performance of ISR support, including 1) the actual action of delivering or conveying intelligence to a user (e.g., presenting a briefing, tipping and cuing, collaboration, threat modeling,  etc.);  and  2)  the  process  of  enabling  an  ISR  mission  (e.g.,  exercise  planning, skill  knowledge  training,    security  clearance  indoctrination,  etc.).    Some  intelligence services further result in intelligence products.  Similar to intelligence products, this AFI focuses on those services associated with intelligence analysis. 1.2.  Production Supporting National Intelligence and IC Requirements. 1.2.1.  IC Guidance.  The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) establishes policies  and  standards  of  analysis  and  intelligence  production  for  all  IC  member organizations  to  adhere  to,  including  the  AF.    These  are  codified  in  the  form  of  ICDs, Intelligence  Community  Standards,  and  Director  of  National (DNI) memorandums  and  address  such  topics  as  analysis  and  production  standards,  tradecraft, sourcing  requirements,  meta-data  tagging,  dissemination  and  retrieval  of  information, product evaluation, and transparency. Intelligence 1.2.2.  DIAP  Guidance.    IAW  DoDI  5105.21,  DIA  manages  DIAP  all-source  intelligence analysis  responsibilities,  policies,  priorities,  and  relationships  across  DoD  member 6 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 organizations,  one  of  which  is  the  AF,  to  support  United  States  missions  and  objectives through an integrated DoD analytic enterprise.  A primary goal of the DIAP is to maximize enterprise  efficiencies  and  minimize  duplicative  efforts  by  assigning  clearly  defined  all-source  analysis  and  production  responsibilities  to  DIA,  Combatant  Commands  (CCMDs), and service intelligence centers.  The DIAP also enables the AF to leverage analysis within the  General  Defense  Intelligence  Program  (GDIP)  throughout  the  IC  for  AF-specific operational and acquisition requirements.  The AF uses the DIA-developed Community On-Line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers (COLISEUM) as the primary tool to research,  develop,  submit  and  review,  validate,  and  assign  DIAP-related  intelligence requirements to analysis centers. 1.2.3.  Library  of  National  Intelligence.    The  ODNI  and  the  Central  Intelligence  Agency teamed  to  create  the  Library  of  National  Intelligence  (LNI),  a  single,  searchable  repository for all disseminated IC products regardless of classification level.  It is the established source for  analysts,  collectors,  intelligence  requirements  managers,  and  other  government  officials to access the spectrum of disseminated intelligence across the IC.  The AF both contributes to and is a consumer of the LNI.  Users can find the LNI on the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System (JWICs) at “LNI.IC.gov.” 1.2.4.  Other  IC  Guidance.    In  addition  to  all-source  analysis  and  production  conducted within  the  DIAP,  the  AF  conducts  single-source  analysis,  e.g.,  signals  intelligence,  human intelligence,  geospatial  intelligence,  etc.,  that  is  additionally  governed  by  directives established by respective lead IC agencies.  AF production that supports these single-source disciplines adhere to  this AFI, other single-source specific AFIs,  and standards set  forth  by respective  IC  agencies.    If  a  conflict  arises  between  the  AF  and  IC  agency  guidance,  IC guidance takes precedence and the affected organization notifies AF/A2D of the conflict. AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 7 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2).  AF/A2  is  responsible  for  overall  supervision  of  all  matters  that  pertain  to  AF  ISR capabilities  and  bears  overall  responsibility  for  AF  intelligence  production  and  requirements management. 2.2.  Directorate  of  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  Strategy,  Plans,  Policy and  Force  Development  (AF/A2D).  AF/A2D  oversees  policy,  guidance,  and  planning  of  AF intelligence analysis production and requirements management.  In this capacity, AF/A2D or its designated  representative,  serves  as  the  AF  "Analytic  Production  Steward"  for  analysis  and production IAW ICD 501, and in coordination with Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Capabilities (AF/A2C) functional managers. 2.3.  Chief of the Air Force Analysis Division (AF/A2DA).  AF/A2DA is the AF/A2 OPR for intelligence analysis production and requirements management.  In this capacity, AF/A2DA will: 2.3.1.  Formulate  and  maintain  guidance  for  AF  Intelligence  production,  to  include  an  AF ISR POA to satisfy IC and DoD production requirements. 2.3.1.1.  Hold an annual intelligence analysis and production forum to delineate AF-wide production priorities and focus areas for integration into the AF ISR POA. 2.3.1.2.  Develop processes and procedures to evaluate effectiveness of meeting AF ISR POA priorities and focus areas; integrate assessments of meeting production requirements into the annual AF ISR POA IAW DNI guidance. 2.3.2.  Closely coordinate with Air Combat Command (ACC), the Core Function Lead (CFL) for Global  Integrated  ISR (GIISR) and the Analysis  Capabilities Working Group (ACWG), to  improve  processes,  procedures,  materials,  and  systems  associated  with  AF  intelligence analysis requirements and production management. 2.3.3.  Coordinate  with  Commander,  National  Air  and  Space Intelligence  Center (NASIC/CC) to participate in and represent AF ISR interests in national intelligence analysis requirements and production governance forums. 2.3.4.  Advocate  for  ISR  requirements  and  production  management  systems, tools, technologies,  and  associated  training  in  coordination  with  the  AF/A2  ISR  Chief  Enterprise Information  Office  (CEIO),  AF  ISR  Innovations  Directorate  (AF/A2I),  AF  Materiel Command (AFMC), ACC, and other MAJCOMs, as required.  Ensure compatibility with IC and DoD systems and tools. 2.3.5.  Implement  and  oversee  AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise  implementation  of intelligence  production  standards  described  in  ICDs  203,  204,  205,  206,  208,  501,  and  the DNI Principles of Intelligence Transparency. 2.3.5.1.  At a minimum, oversee annual evaluations of analytic intelligence products and report findings to the ODNI on the implementation of Analytic Standards IAW ICDs 203, 208, and AFI 14-133. 8 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 2.3.5.2.  Annually  provide  a  nomination products/product lines IAW ICD 206. list  of  AF-wide  covered  analytic 2.3.6.  Oversee  implementation  of  DIAP  intelligence  production  standards  across  the distributed, layered, and mutually supporting AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise. 2.3.7.  Coordinate  with  NASIC/CC  to  represent  and  arbitrate  for  the  AF  in  non-DIAP analysis and production disputes with entities outside the AF. 2.4.  Commander,  National  Air  and  Space  Intelligence  Center  (NASIC/CC).  As  the Commander of the AF and DoD center of analytical excellence for foreign threats to US air and space operations, NASIC/CC will: 2.4.1.  Oversee the analysis and production of intelligence products and services in response to validated mission requirements IAW IC, DoD, and AF policy, standards, and timelines (T-3). 2.4.2.  As  the  main  AF  source  for  intelligence  production  (including  Intelligence  Mission Data [IMD]) for acquisition and intelligence dependent programs: 2.4.2.1.  Validate  service  intelligence  production  requirements  and  ensure  they  are formally  submitted  into  AF,  DoD,  and  IC  requirements  processes  for  evaluation  by applicable producers at the earliest stage possible to facilitate optimum weapon systems interoperability,  supportability,  and  sufficiciency  IAW  DoDD  5000.01,  The  Defense Acquisition System, DoDI 5000.02, DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data  (IMD)  in  DoD  Acquisition,  DIA  Directive  (DIAD)  5000.200,  Intelligence  Threat Support  for  Major  Defense  Acquisition  Programs,  DIA  Instruction  (DIAI)  5000.002, Intelligence  Threat  Support  for  Major  Defense  Acquisition  Programs,  CJCSI  3170.01I, AFPD 63-1, AFI 63-101/20-101, and AFI 14-111 guidance and timelines (T-2). 2.4.2.2.  Establish processes to ensure a production response, detailing how NASIC will answer the requirement, is provided to the customer (T-2). 2.4.3.  For requirements under other IC-managed analysis and production programs, conduct intelligence  analysis  and  production  according  to  the  respective  IC  lead  agency’s  guidance and timelines (T-2). 2.4.4.  Deliver intelligence products and services IAW standards identified in ICDs 203, 204, 205, 206, 208, 501, DNI Principles of Intelligence Transparency, and AFI 14-133 (T-2). 2.4.4.1.  Appoint a senior official as “Analytic Production Steward” to represent NASIC, in  coordination  with  the  AF  Analytic  Production  Steward,  to  conduct  responsibilities IAW ICD 501 (T-2). 2.4.4.2.  IAW  AFI  14-133,  at  a  minimum,  conduct  annual  evaluations  of  analytic intelligence  products  and  report  findings  to  AF/A2DA  for  consolidated  reporting  to  the ODNI on the implementation of Analytic Standards IAW ICDs 203 and 208 (T-2). 2.4.4.3.  Nominate a list of covered analytic products/product lines to AF/A2DA at least annually for evaluation IAW ICD 206 (T-2). 2.4.5.  Annually  produce  a  POA  that  integrates  AF  ISR  POA  Focus  Areas  and  outlines NASIC’s overall production priorities (T-2). AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 9 2.4.5.1.  Establish  processes  to  conduct  intelligence  production  gap  assessments  and ability to meet customer requirements; report findings in the NASIC POA (T-2). 2.4.5.2.  Participate  in  the  annual  AF-wide  intelligence  analysis  and  production  forum hosted  by  AF/A2DA.    Highlight  and  integrate  NASIC  production  requirements  and priorities for coordination and potential integration into the AF ISR POA (T-2). 2.4.6.  Establish  procedures  to  support  the  requirements,  analysis,  and  production  process detailed  in  Chapter  3  of  this  AFI.    Ensure  procedures  streamline  the  RFI  flow  and intelligence production between NASIC and other AF Intelligence Elements (T-3). 2.4.7.  Serve as the AF Validation Office for DIAP production requirements (T-2). 2.4.8.  Represent  and  arbitrate  for  the  AF  in  DIAP-related  analysis  and  production  disputes with entities outside the AF.  Coordinate with AF/A2DA for representation and arbitration of non-DIAP analysis and production disputes outside the AF (T-2). 2.4.9.  Coordinate with AF/A2DA to participate in and represent AF ISR interests in national intelligence analysis requirements and production governance forums (T-3). 2.4.10.  Make intelligence products and/or services widely accessible for review or retrieval through the LNI and AF repositories, where applicable (T-3). 2.4.11.  Use  COLISEUM  to  the  extent  possible  to  manage  intelligence  requirements  and production and to submit/track collection needs for requirements that cannot be satisfied due to intelligence shortfalls (T-3). 2.4.12.  Participate  in  and  internally  implement  AF-wide  intelligence  requirements  and production  management  processes  and  tracking  system  in  support  of  a  distributed,  layered, and mutually supporting AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise (T-2). 2.4.13.  Designate  a  NASIC  representative  to  attend  all  applicable  threat  steering  groups (TSGs) and threat  working  groups (TWGs) when they relate to  analysis  and production, as appropriate (T-3). 2.4.14.  Develop  an  annual  production  plan  to  close  the  gap  in  prioritized  production requirements (T-2). 2.5.  MAJCOM  Directors  of  Intelligence  (A2)  and  the  AFSPC  Director  of  Integrated  Air, Space, Cyberspace and ISR Operations (A2/3/6) will: 2.5.1.  Oversee  the  analysis  and  production  of  intelligence  products  and  services  of MAJCOM  elements  in  response  to  validated  mission  requirements  IAW  IC,  DoD,  and  AF policy, standards, and timelines. 2.5.1.1.  For  intelligence  support  to  acquisition  and  intelligence-dependent  programs (including  IMD),  ensure  intelligence  requirements  for  analysis  and  production  are formally  submitted  into  AF,  DoD,  and  IC  requirements  processes  at  the  earliest  date possible  to  facilitate  optimum  weapon  systems  interoperability,  supportability,  and sufficiency IAW DoDD 5000.01, DoDI 5000.02, DoDD 5250.01, DIAD 5000.200, DIAI 5000.002,  CJCSI  3170.01I,  AFPD  63-1,  AFI  10-601,  AFI  63-101/20-101,  and  AFI  14-111 guidance and timelines. 10 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 2.5.1.2.  For  any  potential  requirements  that  fall  under  other  IC-managed  analysis  and production  programs,  conduct  intelligence  analysis  and  production  according  to  the respective IC lead agency’s guidance and timelines. 2.5.2.  Participate  in  the  annual  AF-wide  intelligence  analysis  and  production  forum  hosted by AF/A2DA.  Highlight and integrate MAJCOM production requirements and priorities for coordination and potential integration into the AF ISR POA. 2.5.3.  Deliver  intelligence  products,  services,  and  ensure  subordinate  unit  compliance  with standards identified in ICDs 203, 204, 205, 206, 208, 501, DNI Principles of Transparency, and AFI 14-133. 2.5.3.1.  Appoint  a  senior  official  as  “Analytic  Production  Steward”  to  represent  the MAJCOM,  in  coordination  with  the  AF  Analytic  Production  Steward,  to  conduct responsibilities IAW ICD 501. 2.5.3.2.  IAW  AFI  14-133,  at  a  minimum,  conduct  annual  evaluations  of  analytic intelligence  products  and  report  findings  to  AF/A2DA  for  consolidated  reporting  to  the ODNI on the implementation of Analytic Standards IAW ICDs 203 and 208. 2.5.3.3.  No less than annually, nominate a list of covered analytic products/product lines to AF/A2DA for evaluation IAW ICD 206. 2.5.4.  Establish MAJCOM procedures to support the requirements, analysis, and production process detailed in Chapter 3. 2.5.5.  Oversee a MAJCOM RFI program and provide direction for requirements that cannot be  answered  with  internal  capabilities  and  must  be  tasked  to  external  analytic  elements  for satisfaction. 2.5.6.  Adjudicate  requirements  and  production  disputes  within  the  MAJCOM  that  are unresolvable at lower levels. 2.5.7.  Represent  the  MAJCOM  in  analysis  and  production  disputes  with  AF  organizations outside the MAJCOM. 2.5.8.  Establish  processes,  conduct  and  oversee  an  annual  assessment  on  ability  of  the MAJCOM to meet customer requirements. 2.5.9.  Make  intelligence  products  and/or  services  widely  accessible  for  review  or  retrieval through the LNI and AF repositories, where applicable. 2.5.10.  Use  COLISEUM  to  manage  intelligence  requirements  and  production  and  to submit/track  collection  needs  for  requirements  that  cannot  be  satisfied  due  to  intelligence shortfalls, where applicable and feasible. 2.5.11.  Participate  in  and  internally  implement  AF-wide  intelligence  requirements  and production  management  processes  and  tracking  system  in  support  of  a  distributed,  layered, and mutually supporting AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise. 2.5.12.  Through  the  MAJCOM/A2  Ombuds,  respond  to  concerns  raised  within  the MAJCOM  about  adherence  to  AFI  14-133  analytic  integrity  and  other  AF  tenets  and standards associated with intelligence production processes, products, and services. 2.5.13.  Designate a MAJCOM representative to attend all applicable TSGs and TWGs. AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 11 2.6.  Commander,  Air  Combat  Command  (COMACC).  ACC/CC  serves  as  the  GIISR  CFL and  the  lead  MAJCOM  for  ISR  forces  and  capabilities,  allowing  for  consistent  presentation  of intelligence analysis and production across the AF. 2.7.  ACC Director of Intelligence (ACC/A2).  As the lead MAJCOM for intelligence analysis, ACC/A2 will: 2.7.1.  Coordinate  closely  with  AF/A2D  to  ensure  AF  policy  and  guidance  is  sufficient  to enable  AF  intelligence  production  and  promote  the  exchange  of  production  doctrine, concepts,  best  practices,  materials,  and  systems  across  the  AF  Intelligence  Analysis Enterprise. requirements  and  production 2.7.2.  Implement  and  oversee  AF-wide management processes and tracking system in support of a distributed, layered, and mutually supporting analysis and production enterprise as outlined in Chapter 3. intelligence 2.7.3.  In coordination with the other MAJCOMs, advocate for and represent AF Intelligence production and requirements management in the ACWG, with the GIISR, and to the AF/A2. 2.7.4.  Coordinate  with  25  AF  to  establish  guidance,  processes,  and  procedures  that streamline  RFI  flow  and the  363rd  Intelligence, Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance  Wing  (ISRW)  and  non-ACC  MAJCOMs,  other  ACC units, and NASIC. intelligence  production  between 2.7.5.  Coordinate with 25 AF and 363 ISRW to annually produce a POA that integrates AF ISR  POA  Focus  Areas  and  outlines  363  ISRW  overall  analysis  production  priorities.  Establish  processes  to  conduct  intelligence  production  gap  assessments  and  ability  to  meet customer requirements; report findings in the 363 ISRW POA. 2.8.  Commanders, AFMC (AFMC/CC), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC), and Air Force  Special  Operations  Command  (AFSOC/CC).  AFMC,  AFSPC,  and  AFSOC  provide support to the Acquisition program offices that reside in their commands. 2.8.1.  AFMC  and  AFSOC  Directors  of  Intelligence  (A2),  and  the  AFSPC  Director  of Integrated Air, Space, Cyberspace, and ISR Operations (A2/3/6) will: 2.8.1.1.  Conduct  or  coordinate  with  NASIC  and  other  IC  Analysis  Elements  to  ensure intelligence production to support Defense Acquisition System intelligence requirements. 2.8.1.2.  Ensure  acquisition  intelligence  prioritized  requirements  for  analysis  and production  are  formally  submitted  into  AF,  DoD,  and  IC  requirements  processes  at  the earliest  stage  possible interoperability, supportability, and sufficiency. to  facilitate  optimum  weapon  systems 2.8.1.3.  Coordinate  through  NASIC  for  acquisition  and  IMD  requirements  that  need  to be answered outside the AF. 2.8.1.4.  Support TSGs and TWGs in coordination with acquisition elements IAW DoDI 5000.02, AFI 63-101/20-101, and AFI 14-111. 2.9.  AF Customers of Intelligence Analysis and Production will: 2.9.1.  Translate  mission  intelligence  needs  into  actionable  RFIs  IAW  IC  and  AF  policy, guidance, and timelines. 12 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 2.9.2.  Clarify RFIs with intelligence support elements and lead/designated producers. 2.9.3.  Provide  feedback  to  lead/designated  producer  on  required  intelligence  outputs  to ensure mission requirements are satisfied. AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 13 Chapter 3 GENERAL GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES 3.1.  AF-managed  Requirements,  Analysis,  and  Production.  Air  Force  intelligence  analysis entities will use the following general processes and procedures to manage RFIs. 3.1.1.  Basic  RFI  Flow.    At  each  organizational  level,  basic  intelligence  requirements  and production processes are fundamentally the same (depicted in Figure 3.1). Figure 3.1.  RFI and Analysis/Production Process.  3.1.1.1.  Customer  RFI.    When  a  customer  has  a  need  for  intelligence  that  cannot  be answered  by  internal  ISR  assets/personnel,  the  customer  will  submit  a  clearly  defined RFI  to  their  intelligence  support  element,  or  equivalent.    For  example,  a  customer  at  a wing submits RFIs to their wing intelligence unit, and a customer at a MAJCOM submits RFIs  to  the  MAJCOM/A2.    If  no  intelligence  support  element  exists  at  their  level,  the customer  shall  submit  the  RFI  to  the  intelligence  element  at  the  next  higher  echelon  of command. 3.1.1.2.  RFI Approval.  The intelligence support element reviews and approves all RFIs.  The intelligence support element will coordinate with the customer to clarify the RFI as 14 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 needed, modify the RFI, explain their decision to approve/disapprove the RFI, and keep the  customer  apprised  of  the  RFIs  status  during  the  entire  intelligence  analysis  and production process. 3.1.1.3.  Production  Determination.    If  approved,  the  intelligence  support  element determines whether they have the capability and authority to answer the RFI.  Capability determination is based on information availability, the ability to tailor information IAW the customer’s request, and the ability and resources to conduct the required analysis and production within the timeframe requested by the customer.  Authority entails having the requisite mission to answer the RFI, as some analysis and production requirements may fall more appropriately within another organization’s mission and responsibilities.  Each AF intelligence organization will understand the analytical purview, responsibilities, and expertise  of  other  intelligence  organizations  to  ensure  RFIs  are  submitted  to  the appropriate organization for analysis and production. 3.1.1.3.1.  Internal Lead/Designated Producer.  If the intelligence support element has the capability and authority to answer the RFI, they are assigned as the lead producer and will follow their internal analysis and production procedures for answering RFIs.  They will also identify and contact outside organizations for collaboration within the time  constraints  of  the  RFI.    Collaboration  will  take  place  internally  within  the  AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise, across the  IC, and externally with allies, academia, and other entities outside the IC, where feasible. 3.1.1.3.2.  External/Follow-on Producer.  If the intelligence support element does not have  the  capability  or  authority  to  answer  the  RFI,  they  will  submit  it  to  the  next appropriate external intelligence office for consideration. 3.1.1.4.  Production  Response  and  Coordination.    The  lead  producer  shall  provide  the customer  a  response  on  intelligence  production  that  details  the  intended  approach  to satisfying  the  RFI  (one  example  being  a  Proposed  Product  Response  (PPR)).    The  lead producer will identify, as applicable, what is to be produced, production frequency, target production  date,  classification,  releasability,  and  cost  estimates.    Time  constraints,  the nature  of  the  request,  and  relationship  to  the  customer  may  dictate  whether  this producer/customer interface is more formal or informal, or the exact format used for the response.    The  intent  is  to  have  an  open  exchange  between  producers  and  customers  to reach  agreement  on  how  the  RFI  is  satisfied,  ensure  production  traceability  and accountability,  and  facilitate  an  RFI  being  comprehensively  answered  in  the  most efficient manner possible. 3.1.1.5.  RFI  Answer.    When  analysis  and  production  are  complete,  the  lead  producer provides  the  RFI  answer  (the  intelligence  output)  to  the  customer  via  whatever  media they  agree  upon.    The  producer  will  share  the  final  answer  with  the  intelligence organizations  at  echelons  between  them  and  the  customer.    The  producer  is  also responsible  for  posting  the  answer  to  AF  and  IC  repositories,  such  as  the  LNI,  as applicable.    The  producer  will  meet  applicable  AF,  DoD,  and  IC  standards  for dissemination  and  also  push  the  RFI  answer  to  other  organizations  that  would  benefit from the analysis.  For example, an Air Operations Center (AOC) ISR Division (ISRD) will push an RFI answer to another AOC ISRD with a similar mission/focus. AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 15 3.1.1.6.  Dialog  and  Feedback.    Customer  feedback  during  and  after  delivery  of  an intelligence  output  is  essential  for  improving  internal  analysis  and  production  processes as  well  as  collecting  valuable  lessons  learned  for  awareness  and  use  across  the  AF Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise.      AF  Intelligence  elements  shall  employ  routine  and deliberate feedback mechanism(s) to improve overall analysis and production. 3.1.2.  Enterprise RFI Flow.  The AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise is layered, distributed, and  mutually  supporting.    As  such,  the  basic  process  depicted  in  Figure  3.1  takes  place  at each echelon of command.  Figure 3.2 expands on this process depiction and illustrates how the  various  echelons  apportion  RFIs  and  mutually  support  each  other  in  AF  analysis  and production.  Both Figures 3.1 and 3.2 are a general guideline for use in AF requirements and production management.  MAJCOMs, the 363 ISRW via ACC and 25 AF, and NASIC will establish  procedures  to  streamline  the  RFI  flow  within  their  purview.    The  intent  is  for  the AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise to address RFIs as quickly, efficiently, and accurately as feasible while ensuring accountability, transparency, and chain of command coordination and authority. 16 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Figure 3.2.  RFI and Analysis/Production Process across the AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise. 3.1.2.1.  Sub-Layers.    Within  each  layer  or  echelon  there  may  be  several  sub-layers  of intelligence support elements (not specifically shown in Figure 3.2).  For example, within a  specific  unit  there  may  be  wing,  group,  and  squadron  intelligence  support  elements.  Within  a  Numbered  Air  Force  (NAF),  an  ISRD  and  the  NAF/A2  may  serve  as intelligence support elements.  This RFI process should flow the same for each sub-layer,  AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 17 with RFIs being submitted from an intelligence support element at one level to the next higher intelligence element within the layer, as needed and required. 3.1.2.2.  363 ISR Wing (ISRW).  The 363 ISRW is subordinate to 25 AF and ACC, but is considered  a  separate  analytical  layer  (see  Figure  3.2)  due  to  its  unique  analysis capabilities and reach throughout the AF.  ACC and 25 AF shall establish guidance that streamlines RFI flow  and intelligence production between the 363  ISRW and non-ACC MAJCOMs,  other  ACC  units,  and  NASIC.    Guidance  must  stipulate  that  the  unit generating an RFI will coordinate the RFI through all intelligence support elements in the requesting  unit’s  chain  of  command  up  to  the  MAJCOM/A2  for  review  and  post-submission approval. 3.1.2.3.  RFI Redirection.  As Figure 3.2 illustrates, there are several options for RFIs that need to be redirected outside a layer.  In general, a NAF may redirect an RFI to the 363 ISRW,  NASIC,  or  its  supported  CCMD;  a  MAJCOM  may  redirect  an  RFI  to  another MAJCOM, the 363 ISRW, NASIC, or its supported CCMD; the 363 ISRW may redirect RFIs  to  25  AF,  non-ACC  MAJCOMs,  or  NASIC;  and  NASIC  may  redirect  RFIs  to  a MAJCOM  or  the  363  ISRW.    Some  layers  can  additionally  refer  RFIs  to  DoD  or  IC analysis and production organizations, with validation by NASIC or by the corresponding CCMD within respective Joint channels.  As Footnote 2 highlights, ACC and 25 AF are responsible  for  developing  procedures  that  streamline  RFIs  directed  to/from  the  363 ISRW and the rest of the AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise. 3.1.2.4.  Distributed  Common  Ground  System  (DCGS)  in  the  RFI  Process.    AF  DCGS produces  and  provides  time-sensitive/near  real-time  processing,  exploitation,  and dissemination  (PED)  of correlated  fusion  and  multi-intelligence  analysis  focused  on  the Joint  Task  Force  and  below.    In  this  capacity,  AF  DCGS:    (a)  executes  missions  as assigned  by  Global  Force  Management  process;  (b)  provides  time-sensitive/near  real-time multi-intelligence correlation and fusion analysis products and services in support of those  missions;  and  (c)  makes  available  intelligence  products  and/or  services  accessible for review or retrieval through the LNI and AF repositories, where applicable.  AF DCGS production  is  represented  by  the  Distributed  Ground  Station  (DGS)  in  the  NAF  and MAJCOM  layers  of  Figure  3.2.    AF  DCGS  has  procedures  in  place  to  internally  share analysis and production requirements among DGSs and mission partners. 3.1.2.5.  AF Validation Office.  If a MAJCOM, the 363 ISRW, or NASIC determines that an AF-specific RFI requires redirection outside the AF to the IC, NASIC serves as the AF Validation Office and ensures the RFI is formally submitted in the proper format to the appropriate IC analysis organization. 3.1.2.6.  Coordination  and  Collaboration.    Continual  and  direct  coordination  between customers  and  analysts/producers is  essential  for  overall  AF  mission  success.  Lead/designated  producers  need  to  actively  solicit  input  and  expertise  from  other intelligence  organizations  and  sources  to  ensure  the  most  comprehensive  and  accurate answer to an RFI, within time constraints. 3.1.3.  RFI Categories. 3.1.3.1.  Intelligence  support  elements  and  lead/designated  producers  will  use  the following  categories  (CAT)  to  designate  RFI  time-sensitivities,  in  concert  with  the  AF 18 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 intelligence  analysis  standard  of  timeliness  described  in  AFI  14-133,  and  where applicable. 3.1.3.1.1.  CAT 1:  RFIs requiring an answer in under 24 hours.  Applies to RFIs that directly  affect  the  safety  of  US  personnel,  time-sensitive  military  operations,  or fleeting ISR opportunities. 3.1.3.1.2.  CAT 2:  RFIs requiring an answer within 2-7 days.   Applies to less time-sensitive  military  operations, force positioning. including  pre-deployment training  and 3.1.3.1.3.  CAT 3:   RFIs requiring an  answer in  8 days or more.  Applies to  routine military training, scheduled production, and strategically focused assessments. 3.1.3.2.  While  the  requirements,  analysis,  and  production  process  is  the  same  for  all categories, the timeframe and method of communication between organizations varies to meet  time constraints.  For example, for a CAT 1 or CAT 2 RFI, a phone call or email exchange may suffice as sufficient RFI coordination.  With time-sensitive RFIs, the most important  task  is  to  provide  a  comprehensive  and  accurate  intelligence  output  to  the customer  within  the  time  required.    Afterward,  intelligence  support  elements  and lead/designated  producers  follow  up  to  ensure  all  information  is  properly  logged, documented, published, and shared with others according to AF guidance. 3.1.4.  RFI  Tracking.    ACC/A2,  as  the  GIISR  CFL  and  the  ACWG  lead,  implement  and oversee  an  AF-wide  requirements  and  production  management  tracking  system,  which  is fundamental  to  achieving  a  truly  distributed,  layered,  and  mutually  supporting  analysis  and production enterprise.  The tracking system must be compatible with COLISEUM and other IC  requirements  systems  and  processes.    Intelligence  support  elements  will  also  enter  RFI data  into  COLISEUM,  as  required  and  IAW  the  Defense  Intelligence  Analysis  Program (DIAP) Users Guide. 3.2.  IC-managed Requirements, Analysis, and Production. 3.2.1.  AF analysis  and production requirements  that fall under the purview of the DIAP  or other  IC  analysis  programs  are  managed  internally  within  the  AF  according  to  guidance  in this  AFI  and  externally  according  to  guidance  and  standards  from  the  respective  lead  IC organization.  For example, AF requirements that fall under the DIAP are managed IAW the DIAP  User  Guide.    If  a  conflict  exists  between  IC  and  AF  guidance,  IC  guidance  takes priority. 3.2.2.  Air Force analysis organizations will follow DIAP-established timelines for managing DIAP analysis and production, as applicable.  DIAP member organizations have established a  timeline  for  managing  DIAP  analysis  and  production.    Table  3.1  applies  the  timeline  to applicable AF organizations for DIAP-specific production.  The times listed in Table 3.1 are the  maximum  allowable.    AF  organizations  will  compress  the  timeline,  where  feasible  and applicable. Table 3.1.  DIAP RFI and Production Management Timeline. ORGANIZATION ACTION TIME ALLOWED AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 19  Customer or Intelligence Support Element Register the RFI  MAJCOM, NAF, or 363 ISRW Review, approve and forward RFI to NASIC  Within 3 working days after receiving RFI  USAF Validation Office  Validate and assign/task PR or reject the RFI   Within 3 working days after receiving RFI;  As soon as possible after receiving RFI upon validation, the RFI becomes a PR.  Production Center  Provide Initial Response (IR) to Customer Within 5 working days after receiving PR from the Validation Office  Lead Analyst Provide production response for scheduled production to the customer detailing the planned intelligence output.    Customer  Provide feedback on the production response.    As required to ensure appropriate RFI response.  Provide feedback on final Intelligence Output  Within 30 working days after receiving the final Within 45 working days after IR is delivered Intelligence Output 20 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Chapter 4 OTHER GUIDANCE 4.1.  IC  Intelligence  Governance  and  Reporting.  The  National  Intelligence  Program  (NIP), administered  by  the  DNI,  provides  guidance  and  funding  for  a  broad  range  of  ISR  activities within  the  IC.    NIP  is  divided  into  sub-programs,  including  the  General  Defense  Intelligence Program  (GDIP)  for  all-source  analysis  and  other  specific  intelligence  activities,  the Consolidated  Cryptologic  Program  (CCP)  for  signals  intelligence  activities,  and  the  National Geospatial-Intelligence Program  (NGP) for geospatial  intelligence activities.  NASIC is  funded mainly  through  the  GDIP  and  NGP  programs  with  a  majority  of  the  intelligence  analysis  and production  funded  by  GDIP,  and  shall  adhere  to  the  appropriate  production  guidelines  and associated  IC  governance,  standards,  and  reporting  requirements  while  performing  in  that capacity.    Other  AF  intelligence  analysis  and  production  elements  shall  also  meet  DIAP guidelines, standards, and  IC  governance and reporting  requirements  in  the event  they perform DIAP- or IC-related production. 4.2.  Acquisition  Intelligence  Production.  Intelligence  analysis  and  production  is  integral  to the entire life cycle process  of requirements definition,  acquisition, and sustainment  of weapon systems.    Acquisition  customers  require  the  production  of  specific  threat  assessments  and potentially  unique  forms  of  data  to  support  research,  development,  test  and  fielding  of warfighting  capabilities.    Acquisition  Intelligence  analysts  work  with  acquisition  programs  and projects  to  determine  intelligence  dependencies  (such  as  IMD,  modeling  and  simulation,  etc.) that inform intelligence production and product/service requirements.  As part of threat support to  acquisition, NASIC continually monitors and  produces intelligence on adversary capabilities deemed critical to operational success for the developing capability.  In partnership, acquisition intelligence specialists, operational command intelligence planners, and NASIC analysts provide direct support to acquisition decision processes as defined in DIAP User Guide, DoDD 5250.01, AFIs  10-601,  14-111,  and  63-101/20-101.    These  documents  provide  additional  guidance  and shall be referenced for specific requirements and resourcing guidance.  ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 21 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 14-1, Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Planning, Resources and Operations, 2 April 2004 AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012 AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-cycle, 16 June 2014 AFI 14-133, Intelligence Analysis, 29 March 2016 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 5 December 2015 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 28 January 2015 DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003 DoDD 5105.21, Defense Intelligence Agency, March 18, 2008 DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) in DoD Acquisition, January 22, 2013 DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, January 7, 2015 ICD 203, Analytic Standards, 2 January 2015 ICD 204, National Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF), 2 January 2015 ICD 205, Analytic Outreach, 28 August 201 ICD 206, Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, 22 January 2015 ICD 208, Write for Maximum Utility, 17 December 2008 ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence Community, 21 January 2009 JP 2-0, Joint Intelligence, 22 October 2013 CJCSI 3170.01I, JCIDS, 23 January 2015 DIAD 5000.200, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs, 1 February 2013 DIAI 5000.002, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs, 1 February 2013 Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP) Users Guide, January 2016 DNI Principles of Intelligence Transparency for the Intelligence Community, 15 January 2015 AF ISR POA, March 2016, S//NF, JWICs Caution-url:  Caution-https://intelshare.intelink.ic.gov/sites/a2/way_aheads/afisr_poa_2016.pdf 22 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air Combat Command ACWG—Analysis Capabilities Working Group AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard AOC—Air Operations Center BDA—Battle Damage Assessment CAT—Category CCMD—Combatant Command CFL—Core Function Lead CEIO—Chief  Enterprise Information  Office CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction COLISEUM—Community On-Line Intelligence System for End-Users and Managers DCGS—Distributed Common Ground System DGS—Distributed Ground Station DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency DIAD—DIA Directive DIAI—DIA Instruction DIAP—Defense Intelligence Analysis Program DNI—Director of National Intelligence DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction FOA—Field Operating Agency AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 23 GDIP—General Defense Intelligence Program GIISR—Global Integrated Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance IAW—In Accordance With IC—Intelligence Community ICD—Intelligence Community Directive IMD—Intelligence Mission Data IR—Initial Response ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance ISRD—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Division ISRW—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Wing JCA—Joint Capability Area JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System JP—Joint Publication JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System KIQ—Key Intelligence Question LNI—Library of National Intelligence MAJCOM—Major Command NAF—Numbered Air Force NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center NGP—National Geospatial-Intelligence Program NIP—National Intelligence Program NIPF—National Intelligence Priorities Framework ODNI—Office of the Director of National Intelligence OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSI—Office of Special Investigations PCPAD—Planning  and  Direction,  Collection,  Processing  and  Exploitation,    Analysis  and Production, and Dissemination PED—Processing, Exploitation, and Dissemination POA—Program of Analysis PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution PPR—Proposed Product Response PR—Production Requirement RDS—Records Disposition Schedule 24 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation RFI—Request for Information RFS—Request for Support TSG—Threat Steering Group TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures TWG—Threat Working Group Terms Accountable  Forms—Forms  that  the  Air  Force  stringently  controls  and  which  cannot  be released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government. Administrative  Change—Change  that  does  not  affect  the  subject  matter  content,  authority, purpose,  application,  and/or  implementation  of  the  publication  (e.g.,  changing  the  POC  name, office symbol(s), fixing misspellings, etc.). AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise—The global community of analyst airmen along with AF ISR organizations that employ the core competency of intelligence analysis. All-Source  Analysis—Intelligence  analysis  that  employs  all  available  sources  of  data  and information to enable the creation of new intelligence and knowledge. Analysis Center—An organization with a predominant mission of all-source analysis.  Analysis centers  provide  timely,  accurate,  and  relevant  intelligence  analysis  to  support  national  and defense policymakers, warfighters, and the acquisition community. Analytic  Production  Steward—Senior  AF  official  designated  to  represent  the  analysis  and production  activities  that  their  respective  element  is  authorized  to  conduct,  and  to  make determinations  regarding  the  dissemination  to  or  retrieval  by  authorized  personnel  of  analysis produced by that activity. Analytic  Tradecraft—Specific  knowledge,  skills,  and  techniques  that,  when  appropriately applied, enable intelligence analysis. Analyst Airman—An AF ISR professional who is skilled and certified in tradecraft to perform the core competency of intelligence analysis across the air, space, or cyberspace domains. Approval  Authority—Senior  leader  responsible  for  contributing  to  and  implementing  policies and  guidance/procedures  pertaining  to  his/her  functional  area(s)  (e.g.,  heads  of  functional  two-letter offices). Authentication—Element  required  to  verify  approval  of  the  publication;  the  approval  official applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the official’s name, rank, and title (not signature). Covered  Analytic  Product—A  subset  of  disseminated  analytic  products  or  services  that  is officially designated by the respective IC element as falling under the authority of 206. Fusion  Analysis  (also  called  Time-Dominant  (TD)  Fusion)—Analysis  in  a  time-sensitive environment  in  close  proximity  to  the  point  of  collection  that  entails  quickly  melding  new AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 25 information  with  baseline  knowledge  to  meet  a  specific  operational  need.    Emphasis  is  on  the process of managing information and on timeliness over completeness. Initial  Response  (IR)—Notification  made  by  a  lead/designated  producer  in  the  DIAP  to  a customer that the producer has received the customer’s validated production requirement. Intelligence  Analysis—A  cognitive  activity–both  art  and  science–applying  tools,  processes, tradecraft,  methods,  and  judgements  to  data  and  information  to  create  and  deliver  new intelligence,  insights,  and  knowledge,  with  the  goal  of  providing  a  decision  advantage  to commanders and decision makers. Intelligence  Customer  (also  called  Intelligence  Consumer)—A  requestor  or  user  of intelligence, including an operational unit, an acquisition organization, a national policy maker, or an intelligence organization. Intelligence  Production—A  type  of  output  from  an  ISR  Activity.    Assistance  provided  to another  entity  during  the  performance  of  ISR  support,  including:    (1)  the  actual  action  of delivering  or  conveying  intelligence  to  a  user  (e.g.,  presenting  a  briefing,  tipping  and  cuing, collaboration, or threat  modeling), or (2) the process of enabling an ISR mission (e.g., exercise planning,  skill  knowledge  training,  or  security  clearance  indoctrination).    Some  ISR  Services result in additional ISR Products. Intelligence  Requirement  (also  called  Request  for  Information,  Production  Requirement, or  Request  for  Support)—A need for intelligence to fill a gap in knowledge or understanding of the environment, adversary capabilities, centers of gravity, or intentions. Intelligence Support Element—An AF intelligence organization at any echelon whose focus is on providing intelligence for AF planning, operations, or decisions. ISR Activity—A task undertaken by a member of the ISR community that is associated with the accomplishment  of  an  intelligence  mission.    An  ISR  Activity  could  result  in  one  or  more intelligence  outputs.    ISR  Activities  do  not  include  tasks  carried  out  by  ISR  personnel  that  are unrelated  to  a  specific  intelligence  mission,  such  as  security  force  augmentation,  honor  guard duty, professional military education, or physical training. ISR Output—The result of an ISR Activity.  An output is categorized as either an ISR product or an ISR service.  Single or multiple outputs may derive from one activity, or one output could be  derived  from  multiple  Activities.    All  outputs  relate  directly  or  indirectly  to  the accomplishment of an intelligence mission. ISR  Product—A  specific  type  of  output  from  an  ISR  activity  that  consists  of  tangible information in written, visual, digital, and/or verbal form that is intended to convey information of intelligence value (e.g., written assessment, threat map, and targeting materials) or facilitates the  accomplishment  of  an  intelligence  mission  (e.g.,  ISR  program  element  code  build,  self-assessment checklist, or training folder). ISR  Service—A  type  of  output  from  an  ISR  Activity.    Assistance  provided  to  another  entity during  the  performance  of  ISR  support:    (1)  the  actual  action  of  delivering  or  conveying intelligence  to  a  user  (e.g.,  presenting  a  briefing,  tipping  and  cuing,  collaboration,  or  threat modeling),  or  (2)  the  process  of  enabling  an  ISR  mission  (e.g.,  exercise  planning,  skill knowledge training, or security clearance indoctrination).  Some ISR Services result in additional ISR Products. 26 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Key Intelligence Question—A strategic, high-level question that states the primary unknown, or information need, about an intelligence issue or problem, which subsequently drives intelligence analysis and/or production within an organization. Lead/Designated Producer—The primary analysis and production organization responsible for integrating  collaborative  analysis  with  its  own  to  provide  a  comprehensive  and  accurate intelligence product or service to a customer. Multi-Source Analysis (also call Multi-Int Analysis)—Intelligence analysis that makes use of more  than  one  source  when  access  to  additional  potential  sources  is  limited  by  reasons  of timeliness, system access, location, or security levels. Production Requirement (PR)—Term used within the DIAP to describe an RFI that has been validated by an appropriate DIAP Validation Office and assigned to a lead/designated producer.  Also called an Intelligence Requirement or Request for Information. Production  Response—An  agreement  between  a  lead/designated  producer  and  a  customer  for the  production  of  intelligence,  containing  sufficient  detail  to  permit  customer  acceptance, rejection, or modification of the proposed intelligence output. Proposed Product Response (PPR)—A specific type of formal production response between a lead/designated  intelligence  producer  and  customer,  used  primarily  in  acquisition  intelligence production. Service Intelligence Center—The analysis center designated for each military service.  The AF has designated NASIC as the service intelligence center for the AF. Single-Source Analysis (also called Exploitation)—Intelligence analysis that employs a single source or expertise in a functional area to characterize events, people, or things.  Such analysis is limited to describing, rather than evaluating, the topic of a particular analysis due to restrictions inherent  in  single-source  intelligence  collection,  precluding  the  ability  to  provide  fully contextualized intelligence assessments.  AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 27 Attachment 2 ISR PRODUCT AND SERVICE LINES A2.1.  AF  products  and  services  comprise  14  product  lines  and  14  service  lines,  which  can  be further classified into four general  categories:   awareness; mission specific;  representation; and enabling (see Table A.2.1).  Sections A.2.2 and A.2.3 include descriptions of each product and service line. Table A2.1.  Product and Service Line Categories. Category Product Lines Service Lines   Awareness   Mission Specific   Representation   Enabling     Intelligence Assessment Threat Study Intelligence Summary Intelligence Report Intelligence Alert   Mission Document Targeting Document Requirement       Database Briefing Display Model   Policy, Plan or Program Mission Support Document           Analysis Situational Awareness Collaboration Intelligence Supportability Analysis     Mission Operations Targeting Mission Readiness Operational Mission Training Requirements Management             ISR Professional Training Policy, Planning, and Programming Force Management ISR Systems Security   A2.2.  ISR Product Lines 1, 2  Intelligence Assessment 3—Strategic, longer-term, analytical publication; focused on future capabilities and intentions; usually broad in military and/or political scope. Threat Study 3—Longer-term analysis that is more narrowly scoped than an assessment; usually focused on a threat system or category of threat systems; generally strategic or operational in scope. 28 AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 Intelligence Summary 3—Roll-up historical analysis of multiple events or missions; shorter timeframe than an assessment or a study (e.g., daily or weekly summary). Intelligence Report 3—Analysis from a single event or mission; includes results from a single-source intelligence collection; often associated with mission results; generally tactical or operational in scope. Intelligence Alert 3—High priority intelligence update with potential urgency and/or mission impact; usually focused on a singular threat or data point. Database—Systematically arranged collection of data, structured for convenient access and manipulation, generally in a computer. Policy, Plan or Program—Official ISR policy, guidance, plans, Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs), Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) efforts, agreements, and resourcing data, to include Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE)-related documentation Mission Document—Text-based materials associated with conducting an ISR-specific mission or other air/space/cyber operational mission; does not include target materials. Targeting Document—Text-based analysis, reports, lists, or publications associated with targeting, weaponeering, or Battle Damage Assessment (BDA); includes hard copy and soft copy formats; does not include target briefings or stand-alone target graphics. Requirement—A need for intelligence information, such as a request for information, a collection need, and essential mission information. Mission Support Document—Text-based materials that assist in the accomplishment of some Enabling Activities, such as Training, Exercises, Conferences, Security, and Continuity. Briefing—Graphic-based presentation that is usually delivered verbally.  Often times, a briefing is developed to visually summarize and verbally present the results of a text-based product (e.g., assessment, study, target document or mission support document).  The most common form of a briefing is a Microsoft PowerPoint presentation. Display—Visual representation of analysis.  Formats include maps, charts, videos, graphics, and diagrams.  Displays are often incorporated into briefings or text-based products. Model—A physical, mathematical or otherwise logical representation of a system, entity, phenomenon, or process.  A threat model includes both data and algorithms to represent the characteristics, performance, behaviors, and/or vulnerabilities of the threat. A2.3.  ISR Service Lines 1 Analysis—Services associated with the evaluation, interpretation, and oftentimes integration of intelligence from available data sources and types.  Includes the conduct of single-source, multi-source, and all-source analysis. Mission Operations—Services associated with the conduct of air/space/cyber operational missions, including ISR collection and PED missions. Situational Awareness—Services provided to assist leadership and operators, including other ISR professionals, in comprehensively understanding the threat environment in which they are focused. Intelligence Supportability Analysis—The process by which intelligence, acquisition and operations analysts identify, document and plan for requirements, needs and supporting intelligence infrastructure necessary to successfully acquire and employ AF capabilities. Targeting—Services associated with the development of target materials, weaponeering, and BDA. AFI14-134  21 JUNE 2016 29 Mission Readiness—Services that support the preparedness or capability of ISR or operational units to carry out their assigned missions. ISR Professional Training—Services involving the training and education of ISR personnel in ISR-related skills and tradecraft.  Includes Mission Qualification Training (MQT) of ISR personnel. Operational Mission Training—Services associated with threat-related training of operational mission crews.  Includes threat training for ISR personnel assigned to operational crews, such as cyber defense mission crews. Requirements Management—Services focused on managing ISR capability needs, requests for intelligence, and requests for assistance, forces, resources, or essential mission information. Policy, Planning, and Programming—Services that involve providing ISR expertise to operations and exercise planning as well as developing ISR policy, guidance, plans, TTPs, RDT&E efforts, agreements, and resource management, to include PPBE support. Force Management—Services associated with governing or guiding ISR manpower and personnel. ISR Systems—Services involving the establishment, accreditation, maintenance, and employment standards of ISR information technology systems. Security—Services associated with the protection, sanitization, and disclosure of classified information and with the establishment/maintenance of classified facilities. Collaboration—Services that explicitly facilitate the sharing of information both within and outside of the ISR community.  While all Services involve “sharing information” to a certain extent, the Services in this Service Line are functions whose primary purpose is to share or exchange information. Notes:  1 Some Product and Service Lines have similar labels.  A good rule of thumb in distinguishing between them is that a Product Line is focused on a tangible output while a Service Line is focused on the action, process or function that results in the Product Line.  2 Product Lines include sanitized and releasable versions of products.  3 Scope, focus, and window of analysis decrease from assessments to alerts.  