BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2ASOG, VOLUME 1 14 JANUARY 2014 Intelligence  AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS GROUP (ASOG) UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   ACC/A2   Certified by: AF/A2D  (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon) Pages: 33   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  14-2,  Intelligence  Rules  and Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules.  This publication establishes the minimum Air Force standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in ASOG units.  This publication applies to Active Duty, Air National Guard (ANG) personnel assigned to Air Force intelligence functions and activities that support ASOG operations.  ANG will be considered functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this instruction.  This publication requires the collection  or  maintenance  of  information  protected  by  the  Privacy  Act  of  1974.    Privacy  Act System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur, covers required information.  The  authority  to  maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  this  instruction  are  Title  10  U.S.C.  8013, Secretary  of  the  Air  Force;  AFI  36-2608,  Military  Personnel  Records  System  and  Executive Order  9397,  Numbering  System  for  Federal  Accounts  Relating  To  Individual  Persons,  as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency  Use  of  Social  Security  Numbers.    Ensure  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  This publication may be supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change  of  Publication.    Route  AF  Form  847s  through  the  appropriate  MAJCOM  functional chain of command.  Units may request waivers for tiered compliance items IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.  Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence   2  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 (A2) is the waiver authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted through the chain-of-command to the publication OPR.   In order for units to have time to prepare for compliance, this publication becomes effective 60 days after the publication date.   Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE    General.   ..................................................................................................................  1.1. 1.2.  Waivers.   .................................................................................................................  1.3. Roles and Responsibilities.   ....................................................................................  Qualification Training.   ...........................................................................................  1.4. 1.5. Internal Intelligence Training.   ...............................................................................  Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING    General.   ..................................................................................................................  IQT Requirements.   .................................................................................................  2.1. 2.2. Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING    General.   ..................................................................................................................  Knowledge and Performance Task Training.   ........................................................  3.1. 3.2. Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING   4.1. 4.2. 4.3. Table  4.1. Table  4.2. 4.4. 4.5.  General.   ..................................................................................................................  Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks.   ..................  Ready Intelligence Program.   ..................................................................................  ASOG ISRLO RIP and Currency Requirements.   ..................................................  ASOG IDO/IDT RIP Currency Requirements.  ......................................................  Regression.   .............................................................................................................  Requalification.   ......................................................................................................  Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING    Specialized Training.   .............................................................................................  Intelligence Evaluator (IE).   ....................................................................................  5.1. 5.2. Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT   Attachment 3—ASOG MISSION QUALIFICATION GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS   Attachment 4—ASOG SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS       4 4 4 4 7 7 8 8 8 9 9 9 17 17 17 18 18 18 18 19 20 20 20 22 26 27 32 AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Attachment 5—ASOG MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED TRAINING AND READY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS      3   33   4  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Chapter 1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1.1.  General. 1.1.1.  Scope.    This  volume  provides  guidance  for  training  unit  intelligence  personnel assigned  to  the  Air-Ground  Operations  Wing  (AGOW),  ASOG,  and  the  Air  Support Operations Squadron (ASOS).  The latter encompasses individuals assigned to a Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) ASOS, or an Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) ASOS.  With the complementary references cited, it establishes the requirements and procedures to attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support unit operations.  These requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented with unit-level written guidance.  Unit-level guidance will not be less restrictive. 1.1.2.  References.  The primary references for ASOG unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2ASOG,  Volume  3,  ASOG  Unit  Intelligence  Procedures;  AFI  14-202,  Volume  1, Intelligence  Training;  AFI  14-202,  Volume  2,  Intelligence  Standardization/Evaluation Program; AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and  Procedures  (AFTTP)  3-1.General  Planning,  General  Planning  and  Employment Considerations;  AFTTP  3-1.Threat  Guide,  Threat  Reference  Guide  and  Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.TACS, Theater Air Control System; AFI 13-113, Volume 1, Tactical Air  Control  Party  (TACP)  Training  Program;  AFI  13-114,  Volume  1,  Air  Support Operations  Center  (ASOC)  Training  Program;  and  AFI  13-114,  Volume  3,  Air  Support Operations Center (ASOC) Operations Procedures.  These references can be supplemented with  other  classified  and  unclassified  authoritative  publications  such  as  National  Air  and Space  Intelligence  Center  products,  Tactics  Bulletins,  Tactics  Analysis  Reports,  Country Studies, etc., as long as the source is appropriately referenced. 1.2.  Waivers.  MAJCOM/A2s  will  courtesy-copy  ACC/A2  regarding  all  waiver  requests  and responses.  ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance. 1.3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 1.3.1.  ACC/A2 Responsibilities.  In addition to the lead command responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1, ACC/A2 will: 1.3.1.1.  Coordinate  with  other  MAJCOM/A2s  to  establish  standardized  minimum requirements for ASOG intelligence personnel training. 1.3.1.2.  In  coordination  with  other  organizations  develop/obtain  and  provide  baseline training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST). 1.3.1.2.1.  In  coordination  with  other  organizations  develop/maintain  and  provide  a training  standard,  course  syllabus,  and  curriculum  for  AGOW/ASOG/ASOS intelligence IQT through formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. 1.3.1.2.2.  In  coordination  with  other  organizations  develop/obtain  and  provide baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral forces AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   5  aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface to air missiles (SAM), air defense artillery (ADA), electronic warfare (EW), directed energy weapons (DEW), ground forces and associated  equipment,  naval  and  asymmetric  threat  capabilities,  limitations  and employment techniques. 1.3.1.2.3.  In  coordination  with  other  organizations  develop/obtain  and  provide softcopy  and  hardcopy  still  images,  computer-generated  graphics,  and  digital audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary, neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle (OB) as well  as  asymmetric  threat  systems;  their  deployment  patterns;  and  camouflage, concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces. in  crosstalk  with  unit  senior 1.3.1.3.  Engage intelligence  officers  (SIO)  and MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.  Provide feedback on lead command-endorsed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures.  Assist units in identifying changes in requirements  and  potential  training  opportunities  to  MAJCOM/A2.    Foster  unit-level “best practices” exchanges for intelligence personnel training. 1.3.1.4.  Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs. 1.3.1.5.  Assist  MAJCOMs  with  ASOG  units  in  providing  support  to  unit  training programs. 1.3.2.  Other  MAJCOM/A2  Responsibilities. intelligence personnel providing support to ASOG units will:   Other  MAJCOM/A2s  with  unit-level to  establish  standardized  minimum 1.3.2.1.  Coordinate  with  ACC/A2 requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials. 1.3.2.2.  Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based on this AFI and MAJCOM supplements. 1.3.2.3.  Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2. training 1.3.3.  The Wing/Group SIO will: 1.3.3.1.  Develop  and  execute  programs  to  meet  minimum  training  requirements  for intelligence personnel.  (T-2) 1.3.3.2.  Provide oversight of the accomplishment and documentation of unit orientation training, MQT, CT, ST and other required training by unit personnel.  Where assigned and  as  necessary,  the  USAF  Intelligence  Weapons  Instructor  Course  graduate  will provide input into the training programs.  (T-2) 1.3.3.3.  Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train.  All intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.  Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions.  (T-3) 1.3.3.4.  Review programs and manning position designations annually.  (T-3) 1.3.3.5.  Monitor training requirements for all intelligence personnel.  (T-3)   6  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 1.3.3.6.  Work  through  appropriate  group-  and  squadron-level  personnel  to  ensure intelligence personnel are assigned under the direct supervision of qualified and current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current.  (T-2) 1.3.3.7.  Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to the  MAJCOM/A2  (courtesy  copy  Numbered  Air  Force/A2,  as  applicable).    See attachment 2 for an example report.  (T-3) 1.3.3.8.  Participate  in  crosstalk  with  other  unit  SIOs  and  MAJCOM/A2  training organizations  on  the  defined  standardized  training  requirements.    Provide  feedback  on lead  command-endorsed  training  materials;  discuss  applicability  of  emergent  training tools, techniques and procedures.  Identify changes in requirements and potential training opportunities  to  MAJCOM/A2.    Participate  in  unit-level  'best  practices'  exchanges  for intelligence personnel training.  (T-3) 1.3.3.9.  Ensure  development  of  intelligence  personnel  training  programs  with  written guidance detailing how programs will be conducted.  (T-3) 1.3.3.10.  Ensure  use  of  lead  command-endorsed  training  materials  to  assist  in  the development and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable.  Modify these baseline training materials to meet unit needs.  (T-3) 1.3.3.11.  Ensure  intelligence  personnel  currencies  and  requirements  are  monitored  and notify/coordinate  with  individual’s  chain-of-command  on  all  training  issues,  to  include delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training.  (T-3) 1.3.3.12.  Ensure  that  unit  intelligence  training  is  executed  with  sufficient  frequency, consistency and accuracy, in accordance with locally developed standards in this AFI, to ensure personnel knowledge, skills and abilities remain current.  (T-2) 1.3.3.13.  Ensure  development  of  procedures  to  provide  written  evaluations  of  the intelligence  personnel  training  program  to  the  SIO  at  the  end  of  each  training  cycle.  Submit  reports  as  required  by  local  procedures  for  tracking  overall  training  status  of intelligence personnel.  (T-3) 1.3.3.14.  Document  all  self-assessment  results  in  the  Management  Internal  Control Toolset (MICT) IAW AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System.  (T-2) 1.3.4.  ASOS/IN will: 1.3.4.1.  Ensure  assigned  intelligence  personnel  attain  and  maintain  the  qualification status determined by the SIO.  (T-2) 1.3.4.2.  Assist  trainers  in  developing  and  executing  unit  intelligence  qualification training and other required training programs.  (T-3) 1.3.4.3.  Review training and evaluation records of newly assigned intelligence personnel and  those  completing  formal  training  to  determine  the  training  required  for  them  to achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this instruction have been met.  (T-2) AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   7  1.3.4.4.  Ensure  personnel  accomplish  ancillary  training  IAW  AFI  36-2201,  Air  Force Training  Program.    Consult  with  the  local  unit  training  manager  and  unit  deployment manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base.  (T-3) 1.3.5.  Intelligence Personnel Responsibilities.  Intelligence personnel will: 1.3.5.1.  Complete  training  and  currency  requirements  within  the  guidelines  of  this instruction and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards.  (T-2) 1.3.5.2.  Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or the ability to participate in MQT or CT.  (T-2) 1.3.5.3.  When changing station or assignment, ensure qualification records are delivered to the gaining unit.  (T-3) training  programs  are  designed 1.4.  Qualification  Training.  Qualification to  progress intelligence personnel from  IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks and  achieve  CMR  status.    CT  ensures  individuals  maintain  proficiency  and  currency.    ST qualifies  individuals  to  perform  specialized  functions.    Qualification  training  can/should  be conducted in conjunction with skill level upgrade training.  For a detailed explanation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202 Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this publication. 1.5.  Internal  Intelligence  Training.  Internal  intelligence  training  is  a  venue  intended  to facilitate  achieving  and  maintaining  currency  status  for  all  intelligence  personnel.    Training received during internal training is achieved via skills practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise devised by the SIO.  The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training requirements for the training cycle.  (T-2)   8  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Chapter 2 INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING 2.1.  General.  IQT  for  intelligence  personnel  begins  after  initial  skills  training  (i.e.,  the  Air Force Specialty Code awarding courses), or after PCS, and concludes with successful completion of the following courses: 2.1.1.  Those  intelligence  personnel  assigned  to  a  TACP  ASOS  or  ASOG  must  attend  the Joint Firepower Course (JFC), Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada (PDS:  I3T) (unit-funded) and the  Intelligence  Battlefield  Airman  (IBA)  Initial  Intelligence  Qualification  Course  (IIQC) (PDS:OCJ), Langley Air Force Base, Virginia (ACC-funded).  (T-2) 2.1.2.  Those intelligence personnel assigned to a ASOC ASOS or ASOG (where the ASOC function is an integral part of the ASOG) must attend the ASOC IQC (PDS:  XEQ), Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada (unit-funded) and the IBA IIQC (ACC-funded).  (T-2) 2.1.3.  The  IBA  IIQC  is  designed  to  meet  the  IQT  requirements  for  personnel  assigned  to support the ASOG mission and operations.  Personnel successfully completing the IBA IIQC, and JFC or ASOC IQC are to be considered Basic Qualified. 2.2.  IQT  Requirements.  Minimum  IQT  requirements  are  documented  in  the  IBA  IIQC,  and JFC or ASOC IQC training standard.  IQT will be completed within the time specified by the IBA IIQC (8 academic days) and JFC (10 academic days) or ASOC IQC (15 academic days) syllabus,  IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.  Failure to complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date.  (T-2) AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   9  Chapter 3 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING 3.1.  General.  MQT  provides  intelligence  personnel  the  training  needed  to  perform  in  their assigned duty positions supporting ASOG missions/operations.  This chapter provides guidance to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program.  MQT execution will take into account  the  assigned  duty  position,  current  qualifications,  prior  experience  and  training, currency,  documented  performance  and/or  formal  training  achieved  by  each  individual.  Accomplish MQT through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT.  Use applicable portions of MQT to create a requalification program for personnel who are in non-CMR (N-CMR) or non-BMC (N-BMC) status.  (T-2) 3.1.1.  Concurrent  IQT/MQT.    MQT  should  typically  begin  upon  completion  of  IQT; however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical.  Member must complete IQT before fully completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR.  (T-3) 3.1.2.  MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the completion of IQT.  Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting requirements are specified in the following paragraphs. 3.1.2.1.  For  active  duty  units,  MQT  will  be  completed  within  120  days.    Notify MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline.  (T-2) 3.1.2.2.  For  ANG  units,  MQT  will  be  completed  within  120  days  including  seasoning days.  If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 180 calendar days,  or  the  execution  of  one  year’s  cycle  of  Inactive  Duty  for  Training  and  Annual Training.  (T-2) 3.1.3.  MAJCOM/A2s  will  consolidate  unit  reporting  of  personnel  exceeding  allowable timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis. 3.1.4.  AF  Form  4381,  Intelligence  Gradesheet.    Use  the  AF  Form  4381  to  document  the trainee’s progression through each individual training item.  Place the completed AF Form(s) 4381  in  the  trainee’s  training  record  or  IAW  AF/A2  guidance  and  approved  processes regarding online documentation.  Specific ASOG MQT intelligence gradesheet elements are located in attachment 3.  (T-2) 3.1.5.  Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT (including MQT requirements  for  personnel  assigned  to  a  TACP  ASOS  or  ASOC  ASOS  in  AFI  13-113, Volume  1  and  AFI  13-114,  Volume  1  respectively),  a  successful  Initial  (INIT)  Mission Evaluation  (MSN)  IAW  AFI  14-202  Volume  2,  locally  developed  standardization  and evaluation guidance, and SIO recommendation. 3.2.  Knowledge  and  Performance  Task  Training.  Units  will  develop  blocks  of  instruction covering  areas  pertinent  to  the  mission  and  derived  from  lead  command-provided  and  unit-developed training materials.  Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency.  The MQT program for ASOG intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following   10  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (attachment 4 lists the minimum MQT requirements outlined in the following paragraphs).  (T-2) 3.2.1.  Knowledge-based  Tasks.    Trainees  must  demonstrate  knowledge  specific  to  unit missions  for  all  areas  listed  below  except  research,  analysis,  and  dissemination  (RAD), intelligence preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) and visual recognition (VR) by  successfully  completing  a  test  from  the  unit  master  question  file  (MQF)  (85  percent minimum  to  pass).    To  demonstrate  the  VR  knowledge  requirements,  trainees  must successfully  complete  a  VR  test  via  a  visual  presentation  system  (85  percent  minimum  to pass).  RAD and IPOE involves imparted knowledge that intelligence personnel should be applying  throughout  all  areas  of  the  training  and  will  be  evaluated  as  subsets  of  each applicable graded area.  (T-2) 3.2.1.1.  Research,  Analysis,  and  Dissemination  (RAD)  and  Intelligence  Preparation  of the Operational Environment (IPOE). sources to  unit  operations,  mission 3.2.1.1.1.  Basic  Intelligence  Research.    Objective:    Demonstrate  ability  to  apply intelligence and  Operations  Plan (OPLAN)/Concept Plan (CONPLAN) tasking.  Specific tasks:  Identify unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources.  Explain the strengths and weaknesses of specific types  of  intelligence  in  the  context  of  the  ASOG  and  unit  missions.    Identify Intelligence  Community  analysis  centers  and  intelligence  producers  useful  for intelligence  applications  at  the  unit  level.    Describe  the  use  of  combat  intelligence information systems and software to request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence holdings are insufficient.  Describe the use of message traffic in US Message  Text  Format  or  OPLAN/CONPLAN-specified  formats, to  request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence holdings are insufficient and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable. 3.2.1.1.2.  Mission-Related Analysis.  Objective:  Demonstrate ability to discern what intelligence applies to the unit mission, (i.e., what is useful to unit personnel, mission planners,  squadron,  group  and  wing  leadership  and  what  is  not).    Specific  tasks:  Describe intelligence needed by ASOG personnel and mission planners for combat operations.    Define  the  rules  of  engagement  and  operations  security.    Describe  the general intelligence requirements of the unit commander and other functional areas supported by intelligence.  Describe the intelligence requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. 3.2.1.1.3.  Dissemination  Techniques.    Objective:    Demonstrate  knowledge  of  unit-level  resources,  points  of  dissemination  and  methods  of  dissemination  to  mission planners, unit leadership and other end-users of intelligence as determined by the unit mission  and  OPLAN/CONPLAN  tasking.    Specific  tasks:    Describe  the  use  of intelligence systems and information displays to disseminate data.  Describe use of collaborative  chat  tools,  secure  video  teleconference  and/or  other  interactive communications  and  dissemination  systems  used  by  the  unit.    Identify  mission planner  and  squadron  and  group  leadership  information  resources  and  ways  to securely integrate updated intelligence into the information flow.  Describe the record message  traffic  reporting  for  unit  operations  by  OPLAN/CONPLAN  tasking,  as applicable.    Describe  methods  to  identify  currency  and  expiration  of  intelligence AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   11  provided to end users.  Describe fundamentals of information security classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of authoritative guidance.  Describe rules,  procedures  and  restrictions  for  secure  transfer  of  intelligence  from  various levels of classified intelligence and information networks. 3.2.1.1.4.  Intelligence  Preparation  of  the  Operational  Environment.    Objective:  Demonstrate knowledge of  IPOE terms  and  concepts and understand the analytical methodology employed in IPOE.  Specific tasks:  Describe the IPOE process (define the  operational  environment)  as the  unit  mission  and OPLAN/CONPLAN  tasking.    Describe  the  impact  of  the  operational  environment, evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action.  Identify IPOE products and producers based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence for ASOG operations. it  pertains to threat  capabilities, 3.2.1.2.  ASOG  Unit  Systems  and  Operations  Academics.    Objective:    Demonstrate  an understanding  of  the  unit’s  specific  systems  and  operations.    Specific  tasks:    Describe ASOG  missions,  capabilities  and  limitations  in  relation  to  specific  unit  missions  and communications capabilities.  Describe how Air Force and joint doctrine applies to the unit missions and employment. 3.2.1.3.  Threat  Knowledge.    Objective:    Demonstrate  knowledge  of  applicable  area  of responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats.  Specific tasks:  Identify details of EW, aircraft,  AAMs,  SAMs,  ADA,  cyber,  DEW,  ground  forces  and  associated  equipment, naval  systems,  and  asymmetric limitations  and  employment techniques  of  adversary/threat  forces,  based  on  unit  mission  and  OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.    Describe  the  threat  relevancy  to  the  ASOG  mission  and  capabilities; demonstrate  ability  to  visually  recognize  these  weapon  systems  if  applicable.    Identify characteristics and tactics of an integrated air defense system (i.e., air surveillance, battle management,  and  weapons  control).    Identify  of  AOR  threats,  specifically  related  to ASOG capabilities and limitations. 3.2.1.4.  VR.  Objective:  When shown a video or still image of sufficient quality, identify enemy/adversary,  friendly  or  neutral  weapon  systems  that  may  be  encountered  in  the operational  environment,  based  on  unit  mission  and  OPLAN/CONPLAN  tasking.  Specific  tasks:    Visually  identify  enemy/adversary,  friendly  and  neutral  aircraft  (both rotary  and  fixed-wing),  ground  equipment,  naval  vessels  by  appropriate  name  or numerical  designator  and  determine  whether  the  object  is  a  threat  or  a  non-threat.  Training  will  include:    Appropriate  aspects/angles,  theater-specific  paint  schemes, national  markings,  various  configurations,  employment  characteristics,  muzzle  flashes, smoke plumes and burst patterns as applicable. 3.2.1.5.  Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) and Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) Integration.  Objective:  Demonstrate basic knowledge of tactical, theater, and national  collection  platforms  and  sensors  and  their  contribution  to  ground  operations.  Identify where intelligence report information can be found.  Specific tasks:  Describe the types  and  capabilities  of  GEOINT  materials  available  for  ASOG  situational  awareness (SA) and tactics support.  Describe methods to research, find and analyze initial photo interpretation reports and image product library annotated images.   12  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 3.2.1.6.  Force Protection Intelligence (FPI).  Objective:  Demonstrate understanding of principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission.  Specific tasks:  Summarize irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot areas.  Give examples of hostile forces capabilities and TTPs.  Identify intelligence FP resources.  Describe terrorist threat levels and force protection conditions.  Understand unit FP considerations.  State facts about base-specific and regional threats. 3.2.2.  Common  Performance-based  Tasks.    Training  will  ensure  the  trainee  is  able  to accomplish tasks IAW evaluation criteria outlined in locally developed guidance IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2.  (T-2) 3.2.2.1.  External  Intelligence  Training  (EIT)  Concepts  and  Methods.    Objective:  Effectively  apply  appropriate  instructional  concepts  and  methods  to  fulfill  EIT requirements  (reference  Table  A3.1).    Specific  tasks:    Modify  training  to  the  specific audience.  Demonstrate methods of delivering training using visual, auditory and physical applications.    Demonstrate  one-on-one,  small  group  and  large  audience  training techniques.  Define methods to verify trainee achievement. 3.2.2.2.  ISR Integration Training.  Objective:  Develop specific ISR Integration training objectives  tailored  to  the  ASOC  and  TACP  mission,  base  and  forward  operating locations.  Specific tasks:  Detail ISR assets, capabilities and limitations based on unit mission  and  on  operations  plans/concepts  of  operations  plan  (OPLANs/  CONPLANs) tasking.  Identify key differences between various ISR assets through comparison of ISR platform capabilities and limitations.  Training should teach the target audience how to optimize ISR asset utilization. Completion of EIT Concepts and Methods, this training and SIO approval qualifies the trainee to conduct EIT for this subject. 3.2.2.3.  Threats to Air Operations.  Objective:  Demonstrate proficiency in establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, ADA, EW, cyber and DEW, ground forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and employment techniques  of  adversary/threat  forces,  based  on  unit  mission  and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.  Specific tasks:  Prepare and deliver an instructional session to  supported  unit  (if  aligned)  and  ASOC/TACP  (not  simultaneously)  on  threats  to  air operations based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking,  as appropriate.   In-garrison,  focus  on   During deployment/exercises, focus on threats to air operations.  Completion of this training, EIT Concepts  and  Methods  and  SIO  approval  qualifies  the  trainee  to  conduct  EIT  for  this subject. 3.2.2.4.  Situation Briefing.  Objective:  Prepare and present the intelligence portion of a situation briefing IAW unit standards.  The situation briefing has two distinct phases:  1) the initial situation briefing, and 2) the follow-on situation briefing, commonly referred to as the situation update briefing.  The basic information for both is very similar; however, the initial briefing details the background, events and decisions leading up to the crisis, while the situation update briefing highlights changes and newly emerging information potentially  impacting  the  operational  environment.    Specific  tasks:    Conduct  effective IPOE research and analysis or extract relevant updates from unit IPOE products.  Identify significant events leading to the crisis.  Identify changes in operational environment since the  last  update.    Identify  any  enemy/adversary,  friendly,  neutral,  and/or  US  political to  Close  Air  Support  (CAS)  operations. threats AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   13  the  deploying/deployed  unit.  Identify the subsequent  changes intelligence  portion  of  a  deployment  briefing. decisions  or  diplomatic  initiatives  that  affect  the  unit’s  operational  environment,  the mission,  or to enemy/adversary  air,  ground,  naval,  space,  cyber  and  irregular  force  disposition  and activity.  Identify FPI for the local area.  Based on IPOE analysis, determine and brief the most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary courses of action (COA).  Update and project  the  most  dangerous  and  most  likely  enemy/adversary  COA(s)  in  subsequent briefings for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours.  Tailor information in the briefing based on  unit  mission,  OPLAN/CONPLAN  tasking,  and  the  audience.    Identify  intelligence gaps  and  any  assessments  of  likely  answers  to  the  gaps.    Use  computer,  web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools.  Construct and deliver a situation briefing (initial or update). 3.2.2.5.  Deployment  Briefing.    Objective:    Demonstrate  proficiency  in  preparing  and presenting tasks:  Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (e.g., warning order [WARNORD], execution order  [EXORD])  and/or  Air  and  Space  Expeditionary  Forces  (AEF)  tasking,  as applicable.    Research,  and  focus  intelligence  to  the  unit’s  tasked  mission,  and  roles.  Include:    synopsis  of  political-military  situation  generating  the  deployment;  relevant enemy/adversary  air,  ground,  naval,  space,  cyber  and  irregular  force  disposition  and activity;  relevant  FPI  for  the  local  area  (e.g.,  terrorism,  sabotage,  subversion  threats), unless  briefed  by  security  personnel  or  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigation (AFOSI)/Army Criminal  Investigation Command (CID);  relevant intelligence  gaps and any  assessments  of  likely  answers  to  the  gaps;  most  dangerous  and  most  likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment; reporting instructions and essential elements  of  information  (EEI);  and  additional  items  as  dictated  by  the  local  situation.  Demonstrate  proficiency  in  using  computer,  web-based,  audiovisual  and/or  manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit.  Deliver deployment briefing  IAW  standards  established  by the  SIO,  based  on  unit  mission  and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the deploying commander.   Specific 3.2.3.  Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Liaison Officer (ISRLO) Performance-based Tasks.  Training  will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks  IAW evaluation criteria established in local procedures IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-2) 3.2.3.1.  ISR  Optimization  and  Strategy.    Objective:    Advise  the  supported  unit  and assigned TACP on ISR optimization and strategy.  Specific tasks:  Advise the supported unit  on  efficient  and  effective  use  of  ISR  capabilities,  to  include  national  and  theater assets as well as Processing, Exploitation, Dissemination cells.  Provide expertise to help the supported unit integrate multiple ISR effects over time and space to accomplish the commander’s objectives. (T-2) 3.2.3.2.  ISR  Assistance  to  Supported  Unit  and  assigned  TACP.    Objective:    Provide subject  matter  expertise  for  ISR  Planning,  reachback  support,  ad  hoc  processes, operations planning, cross-cue synchronization, communications and sensor employment.  Specific  tasks:    Craft  an  ISR  package  to  support  operations  and  assist  unit  with controlling  ISR  during  execution.    Assist  supported  units  with  acquisition  of  ISR products  from  reachback  elements  (e.g.,  AF  Distributed  Common  Ground  System, National  Air  and  Space  Intelligence  Center).    Coordinate  unplanned/dynamic/non-interference  based  collection  requests.    Participate  in  supported  units’  development  of   14  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 concept  of  operations  (CONOPS).    Facilitate  cross-cueing  among  AF  ISR  assets  and between AF and organic ISR assets.  Facilitate information flow during mission planning, execution,  and  post-mission,  e.g.,  CONOPS  to  supporting  units,  aircraft  status  to supported units, etc.  When presented with a problem set, provide a viable solution using the most appropriate ISR resources. (T-2) 3.2.3.3.  ISR  Familiarization.    Objective:    Effectively  apply  appropriate  instructional concepts and methods (reference Table A3.1) to educate the supported unit and assigned TACP  (as  required)  on  ISR  capabilities,  processes  and  requirements.    Specific  tasks:  Modify  training  to  the  specific  audience.    Demonstrate  methods  of  delivering  training using visual, auditory and/or physical application.  Demonstrate one-on-one, small group and large audience training techniques.  Define methods to verify trainee achievement.  Areas  to  cover  will  include:    employment  of  AF  ISR  platforms,  sensors,  and  data architecture  capabilities/limitations;  Tasking,  Collection,  Processing,  Exploitation,  and Dissemination  process;  Air  Operations  Center  (AOC)  organization,  focusing  on  the intelligence functions, including the Senior  Intelligence Duty Officer (SIDO) team and the  ISR  Division  (ISRD);  supporting  ISR  unit  functions,  and  how  to  utilize  their capabilities; collection and product requirements, teaching units how to formulate EEIs and  justifications  to  obtain  desired  results;  Quick  Reaction  Capabilities,  to  include information on ISR capabilities new to theater. (T-2) 3.2.4.  Intelligence  Duty  Officer/  Intelligence  Duty  Technician  (IDO/IDT)  Performance-based Tasks. 3.2.4.1.  Target  Threat  Analysis.    Objective:    Demonstrate  the  ability  to  provide  threat analysis of the target location and de-conflict/validate CAS requests with all targets on the joint integrated prioritized target list, restricted target list and no-strike list.  Specific tasks:    Provide  threat,  Significant  Activity  (SIGACT),  and  Area  of  Operations  (AO) updates  to  the  ASOC  crew  and  subordinate  TACPs/  joint  terminal  attack  controllers (JTAC) using the common operating picture (COP) and/or chat.  Pass threat information to the supporting aircraft via the procedural controller, as appropriate. (T-2) 3.2.4.2.  SA  and  Mission  Tracking.    Objective:    Demonstrate  the  ability  to  monitor mission  tracking  and  SA  tools.    Specific  tasks:    Use  Web  Air  Request  Processor (WARP),  Execution  Status  (ESTAT),  Air  Tasking  Order  Airspace  Control  Order  Tool (AATWEB)  (for  Air  Tasking  Order  [ATO]  parsing),  and  Joint  Automated  Deep Operations Coordination System (JADOCS) for SA and mission tracking.  Monitor chat, radio, and other applicable directed reporting channels for real-time intelligence updates and theater intelligence products for trend analysis of adversary activity and information in order to better position aircraft in support of CAS operations. (T-2) 3.2.4.3.  Situation displays.  Objective:  Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting, updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without intelligence system support  IAW  standards  established  by  the  SIO  and  based  on  unit  mission  and OPLAN/CONPLAN  tasking.    Specific  tasks:    Select  the  proper  medium  to  use  for constructing  a  situation  display.    Identify  the  proper  components  to  be  included  on  a situation display IAW AFI 14-2ASOG, Volume 3.  Research, analyze and plot situation display  elements  IAW  Military-Standard  (MIL-STD)  2525C,  Common  Warfighting AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   15  Symbology  and  US  Army  Field  Manual  (FM)  1-02/US  Marine  Corps  Reference Publication (MCRP) 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphic. (T-2) 3.2.4.3.1.  Manual  OB.    Objective:    Demonstrate  proficiency  in  updating  and maintaining OB on situation displays without intelligence system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.    Specific  tasks:    Research,  analyze  and  plot  OB  using  correct  symbology.  Extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and geographic coordinates.  Identify critical  elements  of  the  table  of  organization  and  equipment  for  potential enemy/adversary nations.  Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR. (T-2) 3.2.4.3.2.  Automated  OB.   Demonstrate  proficiency  in  utilizing intelligence  support  systems  to  download,  update,  purge  and  control  quality  of automated  OB  used  on  situation  displays.    Specific  tasks:    Verify  accuracy  of computer generated symbology.  Identify critical elements of the table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.  Demonstrate understanding of OB  production  sources  for  the  AOR.    Exploit  intelligence  software  applications  to post  and  maintain  OB  and  convert  MGRS  coordinates  and  geographic  coordinates. (T-2)   Objective: 3.2.4.4.  Multiple Source Information Fusing.  Objective:  Demonstrate the ability to fuse information from multiple sources to produce a  continually updated situational display for  increased  situational  awareness.    Specific  tasks:    Create  a  COP,  or  manual OB/situational display; include tracking of friendly OB, adversary OB, threat situations, AF ISR operations, applicable air order data (i.e., Air Control Order [ACO], ATO, and Special Instructions [SPINs], etc.), applicable battle area data (i.e., Forward Edge of the Battle Area [FEBA], and Forward Line of Own Troops [FLOT], etc.), and threat updates impacting air operations within the AO, target locations, and air coordination measures (ACM).  Update the COP in near real time, and update the manual situational display as quickly as possible, in order to keep the ASOC aware of all threats prior to and during air operations.  Select the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display.  Identify the  proper  components  to  be  included  on  a  situation  display  IAW  AFI  14-2ASOG, Volume  3.    Research,  analyze  and  plot  situation  display  elements  using  correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics).  (T-2) 3.2.4.5.  Air-Strike Reporting.  Objective:  Consolidate and disseminate air strike effects summaries.  Specific tasks:  Consolidate from JTAC/TACP mission reports and aircraft in-flight reports (INFLTREP) consolidate and disseminate air-strike  effects summaries.  Record Battle Damage Assessment (BDA) and other pertinent information (such as new threats in the terminal area) in DD Form 1972, section III via WARP; ensure information is channeled to the appropriate intelligence duty office at the AOC per theater directives (e.g., ISRD Unit Support).  (T-2) 3.2.4.6.  ISR/Non-traditional  ISR  (NTISR)  Employment.    Objective:    Demonstrate  the capability to advise the ASOC crew and subordinate TACPs/JTACs in the employment of ISR/NTISR.  Specific tasks:  Demonstrate the ability to maintain communications with the AOC SIDO team and the local Army intelligence cell (G-2) for SA and on-going ISR   16  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 flight operations within the ASOC AO.  Field dynamic ISR requests to the AOC SIDO team.  Provide the SIDO Phase I BDA. (T-2) AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   17  Chapter 4 CONTINUATION TRAINING 4.1.  General.  This  chapter  outlines  intelligence  CT  requirements  for  CMR  and  BMC intelligence  personnel.    There  are  two  aspects  of  CT.    The  first  consists  of  basic  intelligence knowledge and performance training items.  These training topics ensure intelligence personnel remain  competent  in  ASOG  operations  and  aircraft  capabilities,  threat  systems  and  unit intelligence functions.  The second aspect of CT is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP), which identifies specific mission-related tasks intelligence personnel must perform on a regular basis. 4.2.  Continuation  Training  for  Basic  Knowledge  and  Performance  Tasks.  This  section provides  a  baseline  basic  knowledge  and  performance  tasks.    SIOs  will  supplement  these requirements,  as  necessary.    Trainers  will  use  lead-MAJCOM  provided  training  materials  and other resources as needed to provide the most effective and efficient training.  CT must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate RIP requirements.  Compile basic knowledge examinations from the unit MQF.  Annotate completion of CT tasks using the approved online training documentation system.  At a minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT.  (T-2) to include identification  features  and  employment  characteristics  of 4.2.1.  IPOE  –  to  include  the  steps  and  elements  of  the  IPOE  process  as  applied  to  unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. 4.2.2.  ASOG Systems and Operations – to include the roles, mission, and responsibilities of ASOG  and  TACP  personnel;  support  to  air  and  ground  operations;  and  the  Theater  Air Control System. 4.2.3.  Threat  Knowledge  –  to  include  potential  AOR  enemy/adversary  aircraft  and armaments, SAMs, ADA, EW, cyber, DEW, naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations with respect to ASOG operations. 4.2.4.  VR  – enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral weapon systems. 4.2.5.  Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence systems, software applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit mission. 4.2.6.  FPI  –  to  include  intelligence  support  to  FP  principles;  irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist threat levels and unit force protection considerations. 4.2.7.  Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating and maintaining manual and automated OB. 4.2.8.  Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment operation required briefings. 4.2.9.  Mission  Support  –  to  include  tasking  order/special  instructions  breakout,  GEOINT familiarization to determine product requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate scale). 4.2.10.  Air-Strike Reporting – to include types of reports and formats, theater intelligence reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods. 4.2.11.  ISR Integration – to include new/updated ISR assets, capabilities and limitations.   18  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 4.3.  Ready  Intelligence  Program.  The  intent  of  RIP  is  to  ensure  intelligence  personnel perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their duty positions.  In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, conduct RIP tasks in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible.  (T-2) 4.3.1.  The  task  requirements  listed  in  Table  4.1,  ASOG  ISRLO  RIP  and  Currency Requirements, and Table 4.2., ASOG  IDO/IDT RIP and Currency Requirements, establish the  minimum  frequency  requirements  for  CMR  and  BMC.    Failure  to  accomplish  these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2) 4.3.2.  Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks to maintain currency.  If an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform that  task  unsupervised  until  currency  is  regained.    Individuals  are  responsible  for documenting RIP task completion. (T-2) Table 4.1.  ASOG ISRLO RIP and Currency Requirements. SUBJECT Situation Briefing Deployment Briefing ISR Optimization/Strategy ISR Assistance ISR Familiarization Threats to Air Ops Note:  For the purposes of this instruction annually is defined as once every 12 months and bi-annually is defined as once every 24 months. Frequency to Maintain CMR Status Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Frequency to Maintain BMC Status Bi-annually Bi-annually Bi-annually Bi-annually Bi-annually Bi-annually Table 4.2.  ASOG IDO/IDT RIP Currency Requirements. SUBJECT Frequency to Maintain CMR Status Semi-annually Semi-annually Semi-annually Annually Annually Semi-annually Semi-annually Semi-annually Semi-annually Semi-annually Situation Displays Manual OB Automated OB Situation Briefing Deployment Briefing Target Threat Analysis SA & Mission Tracking Multiple Source Info Fusing Air-Strike Reporting ISR/ NTISR Note:  For the purposes of this instruction semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12 months. 4.4.  Regression.  If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle, they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC status, as applicable.  The SIO will direct the member Frequency to Maintain BMC Status Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   19  who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed.  Document regression and the  steps  required  to  correct  the  situation  in  the  individual's  training  record.    Intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program to  return  them  to  CMR/BMC  standards.    The  tasks  accomplished  during  the  re-certification program will be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle.  (T-3) 4.5.  Requalification.  For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1.   20  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Chapter 5 SPECIALIZED TRAINING 5.1.  Specialized Training.  This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary to  achieve  specific  unit  mission  requirements.    Not  all  intelligence  personnel  are  required  to complete  ST.   These  ST  program  requirements  are  for  individuals  without  previous qualifications.  Tailor these requirements for intelligence personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training.  Unless governed by a formal  syllabus,  these  programs  will  consist  of  unit-developed  academics  and  scenarios.  Document ST on the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for the appropriate grade sheet elements).  Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following paragraphs.  (T-2) 5.2.  Intelligence  Evaluator  (IE).  This  program  establishes  the  minimum  guidelines  for intelligence  personnel  identified  by  the  SIO  to  perform  IE  duties  within  the  unit.  Intelligence evaluator  trainees  must  be  immersed  in  the  knowledge  of  governing  directives  and  task procedures.  Intelligence Evaluator training consists of two steps; observation and performance proficiency.  Only qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations.  (T-2) 5.2.1.  Prerequisites.  Intelligence personnel selected to be an IE must: 5.2.1.1.  Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified. (T-2) 5.2.1.2.  Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-2) 5.2.1.3.  Complete  one  or  both  of  the  observation  profiles  and  the  proficiency  profile listed below. (T-2) 5.2.2.  Intelligence Evaluator Training Profiles: 5.2.2.1.  IE  1  –  IE  MSN  Observation.    Objective:    Through  observation  of  a  qualified evaluator conducting a mission evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation techniques and procedures.    Specific  tasks:    Observe  a  mission  evaluation.    Describe  the  evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation.    Identify  scenarios  for  intelligence  evaluations,  objectivity  issues,  and techniques for conducting evaluations. 5.2.2.2.  IE  2  –  IE  EIT  Trainer  Observation.    Objective:    Through  observation  of  a qualified evaluator conducting an EIT Trainer evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation techniques and procedures.  Specific tasks:  Observe an EIT Trainer evaluation.  Describe the evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT EIT or EIT evaluation.  Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations. 5.2.2.3.  IE  3  –  IE  Proficiency.    Objective:    Demonstrate  proficiency  in  conducting intelligence evaluations.  Specific tasks:  Conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough debrief with the person being evaluated.  Use evaluation criteria, grading procedures and proper techniques in documenting evaluation forms. 5.2.3.  Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation.  IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume  2  and  locally  developed  procedures.    The  IE  evaluation  will  occur  after  IE specialized training is completed.  The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   21  after  completing  training,  successful  completion  of  the  initial  IE  evaluation  and  SIO endorsement. 5.2.4.  Intelligence  Evaluator  Currency.    IEs  must  conduct  at  least  one  corresponding evaluation  annually  to  remain  current.    IEs  must  also  successfully  complete  periodic  IE evaluations IAW locally developed procedures.  If an IE loses currency, the individual will not  perform  IE  duties  unsupervised  until  currency  is  regained.    To  regain  currency,  non-current IEs must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by another current and qualified IE.  ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance   22  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  References AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007 AFI 13-113, Volume 1, Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) Training Program, 14 June 2012 AFI 13-114, Volume 1, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Training Program, 30 April 13 AFI 13-114, Volume 3, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Operations Procedures, 1 June 2009 AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 4 May 2012 AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008 AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008 AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008 AFI 14-205, Geospatial Information and Services, 5 May 2010 AFI 14-2ASOG, Volume 3, ASOG Unit Intelligence Procedures, 14 January 2014 AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFTTP 3-1.TACS, Tactical Employment—Theater Air Control System, 1 February 2013 AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December 2012 (S) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008 FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet Abbreviations and Acronyms A2—Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance AAM—Air-to-Air Missile AATWEB—Air Tasking Order Airspace Control Order Tool ACC—Air Combat Command AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   23  ACM—Air Coordination Measures ACO—Airspace Control Order ADA—Air Defense Artillery AEF—Air Expeditionary Force AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures AGOW—Air-Ground Operations Wing ANG—Air National Guard AO—Area of Operations AOR—Area of Responsibility ASOC—Air Support Operations Center ASOG—Air Support Operations Group ASOS—Air Support Operations Squadron ATO—Air Tasking Order BDA—Battle Damage Assessment BMC—Basic Mission Capable CAS—Close Air Support CID—Criminal Investigation Command CMR—Combat Mission Ready COA—Courses of Action CONPLAN—Concept Plan COP—Common Operational Picture CT—Continuation Training DEW—Directed Energy Weapons EEI—Essential Elements of Information EIT—External Intelligence Training ESTAT—Execution Status EW—Electronic Warfare   24  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 EXORD—Exercise Order FEBA—Forward Edge of the Battle Area FLOT—Forward Line of Own Troops FM—Field Manual FPI—Force Protection Intelligence GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence IAW—In Accordance With IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course INFLTREP—In-flight Report INIT—Initial IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment IQT—Initial Qualification Training ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISRD—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Division ISRLO—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Liaison Officer JADOCS—Joint Automated Deep Operations Coordination System JTAC—Joint Terminal Attack Controllers JFC—Joint Firepower Course MAJCOM—Major Command MGRS—Military Grid Reference System MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset MQF—Master Question File MQT—Mission Qualification Training MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation N-BMC—Non BMC Status N-CMR—Non CMR Status NTISR—Non Traditional Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance OB—Order of Battle OPLAN—Operations Plan OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination RIP—Ready Intelligence Program AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   25  SA—Situational Awareness SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile SIDO—Senior Intelligence Duty Officer SIGACT—Significant Activity SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer ST—Specialized Training TACP—Tactical Air Control Party VR—Visual Recognition WARNORD—Warning Order WARP—Web-based Access and Retrieval Portal Terms Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program degradation  or  failure,  injury,  legal  jeopardy  or  unacceptable  fraud,  waste  or  abuse.    Waivers may  be  granted  at  the  MAJCOM/CC  level,  but  may  not  be  delegated  lower  than  MAJCOM Director. Tier  3  (T-3)—Non-compliance  has  a  relatively  remote  potential  to  create  risk  of  mission  or program  degradation  or  failure,  injury,  legal  jeopardy  or  unacceptable  fraud,  waste  or  abuse.  Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA commander level.    26  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Attachment 2 TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT Figure A2.1.  Example Training Shortfall Report.  [DATE]  MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2  FROM:  [UNIT]  SUBJECT:  Intelligence Training Shortfalls  1.  TRAINING SHORTFALLS.  (Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a major impact on training.) EVENT PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL AFFECTED  SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL  CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)  LIMFACS 2.  SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).     SIGNATURE BLOCK   CC:  NAF/A2  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   27  Attachment 3 ASOG MISSION QUALIFICATION GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS A3.1.  ASOG MQT Performance Task Grade Sheet Elements.  The MQT performance task gradesheet  elements  in  this  attachment  are  to  be  used  when  filling  out  the  AF  Forms  4381.  Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through training events.  File the completed gradesheets in the trainee’s training record.  (T-2) Table A3.1.  ASOG Common EIT Concepts and Methods Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Preparation 2.  Decision making 3.  Objective - Effectively apply appropriate instructional concepts and methods 4.  Communication skills 4.1.  Effective verbal and non-verbal communication 4.2.  Effective use of visual aids 5.  Knowledge 6.  Organization 6.1.  Appropriate level of detail 6.2.  Technique appropriate to audience (one-on-one, small or large group) 7.  Adherence to unit standards 8.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.2.  ASOG Common ISR Integration Training Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Preparation 2.  Decision making 3.  Objective - Develop specific ISR integration training tailored to unit mission and tasking 4.  Communication skills 4.1.  Effective verbal and non-verbal communication 4.2.  Effective use of visual aids 5.  Knowledge 6.  Organization 6.1.  Appropriate level of detail 6.2.  Technique appropriate to audience (one-on-one, small or large group) 7.  Adherence to unit standards 8.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.3.  ASOG Common Threats to Air/Ground Operations Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Briefing preparation 1.1.  Research 1.2.  Analysis 2.  General knowledge 2.1.  Primary threat countries 2.2.  Capabilities and limitations 2.3.  Employment characteristics   28  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 2.4.  Countertactics 3.  Delivery 3.1.  Effective verbal and non-verbal communication 3.2.  Effective use of visual aids 3.3.  Appropriate level of detail 3.4.  Applicability to audience 4.  Adherence to unit standards 5.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.4.  ASOG Common Situation Briefing Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Briefing preparation 1.1.  Research 1.2.  Analysis 1.3.  IPOE/Changes to IPOE 1.4.  Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools 2.  General knowledge 2.1.  Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis/ Significant political/military developments impacting the mission 2.2.  Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known 2.3.  Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval) 2.4.  Potential enemy COAs/ Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours 2.5.  Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments 2.6.  FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF, CID or AFOSI 3.  Delivery 3.1.  Effective verbal and non-verbal communication 3.2.  Effective use of visual aids 3.3.  Appropriate level of detail 3.4.  Applicability to audience 4.  Adherence to unit standards 5.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.5.  ASOG Common Deployment Briefing Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Briefing preparation 1.1.  Research 1.2.  Analysis 1.3.  IPOE 1.4.  Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools 2.  General knowledge 2.1.  Unit tasking (e.g., WARNORD, EXORD, AEF tasking) 2.2.  Political-military situation generating the deployment 2.3.  Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity 2.4.  Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   29  2.5.  Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF, CID or AFOSI 2.6.  Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment 2.7.  PR 3.  Delivery 3.1.  Effective verbal and non-verbal communication 3.2.  Effective use of visual aids 3.3.  Appropriate level of detail 3.4.  Applicability to audience 4.  Adherence to unit standards 5.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.6.  ISRLO – ISR Optimization/Strategy Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Advise the supported unit on efficient and effective use of ISR capabilities 2.  Help the unit integrate multiple ISR effects over time and space to accomplish commander’s objectives. Table A3.7.  ISRLO – ISR Assistance Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Craft an ISR package to support operations and assist unit with controlling ISR during execution. 2.  Assist supported units with acquisition of ISR products from reachback elements. 3.  Coordinate unplanned/dynamic/non-interference based collection requests. 4.  Participate in supported units’ development of CONOPS. 5.  Enable cross-cueing among AF ISR assets and between AF and organic ISR assets. 6.  Facilitate information flow during mission planning, execution, and post-mission Adherence to unit standards 7.  Provide a viable solution to a problem set using the most appropriate ISR resources Table A3.8.  ISRLO – ISR Familiarization Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Preparation 2.  Decision making 3.  Objectives 3.1.  Detail ISR assets, capabilities and limitations based on unit mission and on OPLANs/ CONPLANs tasking. 3.2.  Identify key differences between various ISR assets through comparison of ISR platform capabilities and limitations. 4.  Communication skills 4.1.  Effective verbal and non-verbal communication 4.2.  Effective use of visual aids 5.  Knowledge 6.  Organization 6.1.  Appropriate level of detail 6.2.  Technique appropriate to audience (one-on-one, small or large group) 7.  Adherence to unit standards   30  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 8.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.9.  IDO/IDT – Target Threat Analysis Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Demonstrate the ability to provide threat, SIGACT, and AO updates to the ASOC crew and subordinate TACPs/ JTACs using the COP and/or chat. 2.  Pass threat information to the supporting aircraft via the procedural controller, as appropriate. Table A3.10.  IDO/IDT – Situational Awareness & Mission Tracking Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Able to use WARP, ESTAT, AATWEB, and JADOCS. 2.  Monitor chat, radio, and other applicable directed reporting channels for real-time intelligence updates and theater intelligence products for trend analysis of adversary activity and information in order to better position aircraft in support of CAS operations. Table A3.11.  IDO/IDT – Situation Displays Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays 2.1.  Research of sources and analysis for situation display data 2.2.  Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display 2.3.  Identified proper components to be included on a situation display 3.  Plotting abilities 3.1.  Geographic coordinates 3.2.  MGRS  and UTM 3.3.  Coordinate conversion 4.  Correct use of symbology 5.  Updated and maintained situation displays 6.  Adherence to unit standards 7.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.12.  IDO/IDT – Manual OB Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Understanding of OB production sources 2.  Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data - Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations 3.  Plotting abilities 3.1.  Geographic coordinates 3.2.  MGRS  and UTM 3.3.  Coordinate conversion 4.  Correct use of symbology 5.  Updated and maintained OB on the situation display  6.  Adherence to unit standards 7.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.13.  IDO/IDT – Automated OB Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Ability to use automated intelligence systems for OB AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   31  1.1.  Construct OB display 1.2.  Updated and Maintained OB display 1.3.  Performed coordinate conversion 2.  Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data - Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations 3.  Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology 4.  Adherence to unit standards 5.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.14.  IDO/IDT – Multiple Source Information Fusing Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Demonstrate the ability to create a CoP, or manual OB/situational display; include tracking of friendly OB, adversary OB, threat situations, AF ISR operations, applicable air order data (i.e., ACO, ATO, and SPINs, etc.), applicable battle area data (i.e., FEBA, and FLOT, etc.), and threat updates impacting air operations within the AO, target locations, and ACM. 2.  Demonstrate the ability to update the CoP in near real time, and update the manual situational display as quickly as possible, in order to keep the ASOC aware of all threats prior to and during air operations. 3.  Select the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display. 4.  Identify the proper components to be included on a situation display IAW AFI 14-2ASOG, Volume 3. 5.  Research, analyze and plot situation display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A. 6.  Adherence to unit standards 7.  Security Table A3.15.  IDO/IDT – Air Strike Reporting Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  From JTAC/TACP mission reports and aircraft INFLTREP, consolidate and disseminate air-strike effects summaries. 2.  Record BDA and other pertinent information (such as new threats in the terminal area) in DD Form 1972, section III via WARP; ensure information is channeled to the appropriate intelligence duty office at the AOC. 3.  Adherence to unit standards 4.  Followed security guidelines Table A3.16.  IDO/IDT – ISR/NTISR Employment Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Maintain communications with the AOC SIDO team and the local Army G-2 for SA and on-going ISR flight operations within the ASOC AO. 2.  Field dynamic ISR requests to the AOC SIDO team. 3.  Provide, at a minimum, the SIDO with ground situation updates as applicable and Phase I BDA.    32  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014 Attachment 4 ASOG SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS A4.1.  ASOG  ST  Performance  Task  Gradesheet  Elements.    The  ST  performance  task gradesheet  elements  in  this  attachment  are  to  be  used  when  filling  out  the  AF  Forms  4381.  Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through training events.  The ST gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s training record. (T-2) Table A4.1.  ASOG IE Grade Sheet Elements. 1.  Preparation 2.  Decision making 3.  Objectives 4.  Communication skills 5.  Knowledge 6.  Organization 7.  Documentation 8.  Follow security guidelines  AFI14-2ASOGV1  14 JANUARY 2014   33  Attachment 5 ASOG MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED TRAINING AND READY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS A5.1.  Table A5.1.  Consolidates the ASOG MQT, ST and RIP training items.  It is meant to be used by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs. Table A5.1.  ASOG MQT, ST and RIP Requirements. Requirement IDO/IDT ISRLO MQT X X RAD and IPOE ASOG Unit Systems and Operations Academics Threat Knowledge Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems VR ISR and GEOINT Fundamentals  FPI  EIT Concepts and Methods ISR Integration Training Threats to Air Ops Situation Briefing Deployment Briefing ISR Optimization/Strategy ISR Assistance ISR Familiarization Target Threat Analysis SA & Mission Tracking Situation displays Manual OB Automated OB Multiple Source Info Fusing Air-Strike Reporting ISR/NTISR Employment IE 1 - IE MSN Observation IE 2 - IE EIT Observation IE 3 - IE Proficiency  MQT X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- X X X X X X X X X X --- --- --- X X X X X X X X --- --- --- ISRLO RIP --- --- IDO/T RIP --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- X X X X X X X X X X X X X --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- X X X X X X X X X X X X X --- --- --- ST --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- X X X 