DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE WASHINGTON DC 20330 AFI10-701_AFGM2017-01 28 JULY 2017 MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs FROM:  HQ USAF/A3 1480 Air Force Pentagon Washington DC 20330-1070 SUBJECT:  Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC) By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Air Force Guidance Memorandum immediately changes AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011.  Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory.  To the extent, its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force (AF) publications; the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.   This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to, or rewrite of AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), whichever is earlier. MARK C. NOWLAND Lieutenant General, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations Attachment: AFI10-701_AFGM2017-01 Title of Attachment:  Operations Security (OPSEC) ATTACHMENT AFI10-701_AFGM2017-01 Operations OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at: www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR: AF/A3TY Certified by: AF/A3T (Maj Gen Scott F. Smith) Supersedes: AFI 10-701, 8 June 2011 Pages: 58 This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-7, Air Force Information Operations.  The reporting requirements in this publication have been assigned Report Control Symbol (RCS) DD-INTEL (A) 2228 in accordance with Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5205.02E, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, and DoD Manual (DoDM) 5205.02M, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program Manual.  It applies to all Department of the Air Force (AF) civilians (DAFC), contractor, Regular Air Force (REGAF) personnel, AF Academy and Reserve Officer Training Corps, the Air Force Reserves (AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG), except where noted otherwise.  This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to AF/A3TY, Information Operations Division for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, and T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit request for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the AF.   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  This revision adds responsibilities for major commands (MAJCOMs), Direct Report Units (DRUs), and Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), Numbered Air Forces, OPSEC Program Managers (PM), Coordinators, and Planners.  Additionally, this revision introduces the AF OPSEC Support Team (AF OST), establishes changes to signature management (SM), base profiling process, and updates how the AF conducts OPSEC External Assessments (OEA), previously known as OPSEC surveys. Chapter 1  1.1.  Operations Security (OPSEC) Overview.  National Security Decision Directive 298 (NSDD 298), National Operations Security Program requires each executive department and agency with a national security mission to have an OPSEC program.  Likewise, DoDD 5205.02E, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, supports the national program and requires each DoD component to establish and maintain an OPSEC program.  1.1.1.  OPSEC is an information-related capability (IRC) that preserves friendly essential secrecy by using a process to identify, control, and protect critical information and indicators that, if compromised, would allow adversaries or potential adversaries to identify and exploit friendly vulnerabilities leading to increased risk or potential mission, function, program, or activity failure or the loss of life.  OPSEC’s desired effect is to influence the adversary’s behavior and actions by reducing the adversary’s ability to collect and exploit critical information and indicators about friendly activities.  1.1.2.  Essential secrecy is the condition achieved by the denial of critical information and indicators to adversaries.  Adversaries in possession of critical information can hinder or prevent friendly mission accomplishment.  Thus, essential secrecy is a prerequisite for effective operations.  1.1.3.  OPSEC supports planning, preparation, execution, and post execution phases of any activity, operation or program across the entire spectrum of military action and in any operational environment.  Enhanced operational effectiveness happens when commanders and other decision-makers apply OPSEC from the earliest stages of planning.  Exclusion of OPSEC in the early stages of strategy and operational planning limits the effectiveness of operations within the information environment from the beginning of an operation and consequently degrades the commander’s ability to gain information superiority.  1.1.4.  OPSEC, when closely integrated and synchronized with other IRCs, security disciplines, and all aspects of protected operations, preserves essential secrecy.  OPSEC does this by systematically identifying and managing critical information and indicators attendant to military operations, in order to deny the adversary’s ability to interpret friendly intentions, capabilities, or activities in sufficient time to act effectively against friendly mission accomplishment.  OPSEC provides  a  methodology  to  manage  risk.  It  is  impossible  to  avoid  all  risk  and  protect everything.  To attempt to protect all information diverts resources from actions needed for mission success.  OPSEC must endeavor to establish a proper balance between dissemination of information to family members and the public, consistent with the requirement to protect critical information and maintain essential secrecy.  1.2.  AF OPSEC.  OPSEC is established, managed, and implemented at all levels throughout the AF.  It is an operations function, and shall be integrated into all operational planning and coordinated with relevant military deception (MILDEC) and other information operations programs.  1.2.1.  To ensure effective implementation across organizational and functional lines of operations, the organization’s OPSEC program should reside in the operations and/or plans  element of an organization and have unimpeded access to the commander/director.  For those organizations with no traditional operations or plans element, the commander/director must decide the most logical area to place management and coordination of the organization’s OPSEC program while focusing on operations and the mission of the organization.  1.2.2.  AF OPSEC program management consist of OPSEC practitioners (e.g., PM, coordinators, planners, instructors, OST members) at appropriate command levels.  AF OPSEC coordinates between acquisition, cybersecurity, intelligence, operations, public affairs (PA), security, training and education, and command authorities with mechanisms for enforcement to ensure accountability, threat awareness, and senior leadership oversight.  1.2.3.  To enhance the effectiveness and understanding of OPSEC, the AF provides awareness, education, and training to all AF personnel (e.g., military, DAFC, contractors, family members).  Additionally, the AF conducts internal and external assessments utilizing tools and capabilities such as the AF OST, Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Weapon System (WS), and Enterprise Protection Risk Management (EPRM).  1.2.4.  OPSEC shall be coordinated and integrated into all security disciplines (personnel, information, cybersecurity, industrial, physical, (including law enforcement), antiterrorism, and force protection).  (T-0).  1.2.5.  At a minimum, OPSEC shall be integrated into military strategy; command and control; operational and tactical planning and execution; continuity of operations; AF specialized training; and military indoctrination.  In addition OPSEC shall be integrated into relevant support activities; contingency; combat and peacetime operations and exercises; communications-computer architectures and processing; critical infrastructure protection; weapons systems Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E); inspections; acquisition and procurement; and medical operations.  (T-0).  1.2.6.  RDT&E activities are high-priority targets for collection by multiple actors and particularly vulnerable to compromise for both classified and controlled unclassified information, and have an inherent requirement to implement OPSEC.  1.2.8.  Waivers to the security clearance requirement in this instruction must be elevated and coordinated with the HHQ OPSEC PM and organizations information security manager, prior to submitting to the wavier authority.  (T-2).  Though, OPSEC essentially is concerned with protecting unclassified critical information, threat information, vulnerabilities, and countermeasures regarding specific operations, activities, and program can become classified.  Ensuring OPSEC practitioners have the appropriate security clearance allows the OPSEC practitioner to complete their OPSEC duties.  1.2.9.  Special Experience Identifier (SEI).  All individuals performing OPSEC duties who have not been awarded a 14F Air Force Specialty Code may be awarded a 9O (Officer) or 234 (Enlisted) SEI.  All training and experience criteria stipulated in the AF Officer and Enlisted Classification Directories and approval by the commander and/or appropriate Air Force Personnel Center assignment manager is required for award of the SEI.   1.3.  Roles and Responsibilities:  1.3.1.  Commanders/Directors at all levels are solely responsible for the essential secrecy of operations within their enterprise and retain overall responsibility for risk management decisions and the implementation of OPSEC countermeasures.  Commanders/Directors must maintain a balance between countermeasures and operational needs.  They must understand the risk to the mission, and then approve countermeasures to implement and mitigate said risk.  The maintenance and effectiveness of an OPSEC program is the responsibility of each commander/director.  NOTE: Commanders/Directors may delegate responsibility for OPSEC program management decisions to no lower than the MAJCOM/HAF DRU/A3/director responsible for the OPSEC Program, and no lower than the Wing/CV for Wings.  (T-0).  Commanders/directors will:  1.3.1.1.  Establish, resource, and maintain effective OPSEC programs.  A program consists of policies, accountability, mechanisms for enforcement, operating staff, tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), awareness education, training, and equipping functions necessary to enable the conduct of OPSEC planning and execution support and to ensure the highest level of leadership oversight.  (T-0).    1.3.1.2.  Ensure implementation of AF OPSEC policy and guidance to incorporate and institutionalize OPSEC concepts into relevant doctrine, policies, strategies, programs, budgets, training, exercises, and evaluation methods in order to deny adversaries the opportunity to take advantage of publicly available information, especially when aggregated.  (T-0).  1.3.1.3.  Ensure written guidance is issued (e.g., critical information and indicator lists (CIIL), memorandums, standard operating procedures (SOPs), OPSEC program plans) to make sure OPSEC is integrated into day-to-day and contingency operations.  (T-0).  1.3.1.4.  Ensure measures are taken to manage operational signatures, prevent disclosure of critical information and indicators, and protect essential secrets.  (T-0).  1.3.1.5.  Ensure at a minimum signatures are identify relating to the planning, development, deployment, and movement of equipment, personnel, and weapon systems and document their mitigation, allowing for the essential secrecy of AF Activities.  (T-0).  1.3.1.6.  Ensure critical information and indicators are identified for each AF activity whether it be planned, conducted or supported.  (T-0).  1.3.1.7.  Consider a 100% shred policy for documents containing critical information (e.g., local/HHQ exercises, test schedules, recall rosters, medical supply listings, funding documents, travel itineraries, flight plans).  (T-3).  1.3.1.8.  Appoint in writing full-time primary and alternate OPSEC PMs at Headquarters Air Force (HAF), MAJCOMs, HAF DRUs, AFFOR Staff, and Air and Space Operations Centers (AOC).  (T-0).   1.3.1.8.1.  Appoint primary OPSEC PMs at grades no lower than O-4, GS-13 for MAJCOMs, and DRUs and O-3, E-7, GS-11 for AFFOR Staff, and AOCs.  (T-1).  1.3.1.8.2.  Appoint alternate OPSEC PMs at grades no lower than O-2, E-7, GS-11 for MAJCOM and DRUs and 0-1, E-6, GS-9 for AFFOR Staff and AOCs.  (T-1).  1.3.1.9.  Appoint in writing full-time or additional duty primary and alternate OPSEC PMs at HAF FOAs, MAJCOM DRUs, Numbered Air Forces (NAF), Wings, Centers, and Laboratories.  NOTE: Due to the shared HQ management level relationship of C-MAJCOMs and NAFs, C-MAJCOMs do not require a NAF OPSEC PM.  (T-0).  1.3.1.9.1.  Appoint primary OPSEC PMs at grades no lower than O-3, GS-11.  (T-1).  1.3.1.9.2.  Appoint alternate OPSEC PMs at grades no lower than O-2, GS-9, E-7.  (T-1).  1.3.1.10.  Ensure contractors are not appointed as OPSEC PMs.  (T-0).  1.3.1.11.  Ensure OPSEC PMs are appointed for no less than two years in order to ensure OPSEC program continuity, long-term stability, and maximize AF training investment.  NOTE: Geographical locations where the tour of duty is less than two years are exempt from having to meet the 2-year requirement.  (T-2).  1.3.1.12.  Ensure procedures are established to determine and appoint if deemed necessary OPSEC Coordinators within subordinate organizations to implement and enhance the effectiveness of the parent organizations OPSEC program.  (T-3).    1.3.1.13. Ensure when appointing contractors as OPSEC Coordinators, there are no inherently government functions associated with their OPSEC Coordinator duties.  NOTE:  To reduce potential conflict of interest, prior to creating a contract requiring a contractor to be an OPSEC Coordinator, consult the local contracting representative for information regarding government contractor relationship.  1.3.1.14.  Appoint in writing OPSEC Planners at C-MAJCOMs, NAFs, AFFORs, and AOCs.  (T-2).  NOTE:  Due to the shared HQ management level relationship of C-MAJCOMs and NAFs, C-MAJCOMs do not require a NAF OPSEC Planner.  Wing and wing-equivalent organizations have the option of appointing OPSEC Planners to assist OPSEC PMs in the implementation of OPSEC within the planning process.    1.3.1.15.  Appoint OPSEC Planners at grades no lower than O-3, GS-7, or E-6.  (T-0).  1.3.1.16.  Ensure OPSEC Working Groups (OWG) are established and convened a minimum of bi-annually to address specific OPSEC issues in order to advise, coordinate, and support AF activities e.g., threat, intelligence/counterintelligence, anti-terrorism, security, force protection working groups, and PA efforts.  (T-3).   1.3.1.17.  Ensure OWGs are established for any operation or exercise to protect the critical information and indicators of the operation/exercise.  (T-0).  1.3.1.18.   Ensure an Annual OPSEC Program Report is completed and forward IAW guidance issued in Chapter 5 of this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.1.19.  Ensure a report detailing OPSEC risk mitigation efforts on Open Skies Treaty observation activities within the commander’s/director’s enterprise is completed IAW guidance issued in Chapter 5 of this instruction.  (T-1).  1.3.1.20.  Ensure OPSEC internal assessments are conducted annually to make sure OPSEC is being consistently applied, integrated into day-to-day operations and/or other IO activities throughout the organization, and critical information and indicators are being protected.  (T-0).  1.3.1.21.  Ensure an OPSEC review of the organization’s owned, operated or controlled external-facing websites, social media sites, and SharePoints is conducted annually to confirm critical information and indicators are not being made available to the public.  (T-0).  1.3.1.22.  Ensure guidance is establish  make sure OPSEC considerations are included in the PA security policy review processes for publishing/releasing information to the public.  Utilization of the appropriate and current CIIL is important to the success of ensuring critical information and indicators are not made available for public consumption.  (T-0).  1.3.1.23.  Ensure OPSEC PMs and planners liaise with communities such as the information protection (IP), force protection, intelligence/counterintelligence, cybersecurity, foreign disclosure, protocol office, anti-terrorism, and threat working groups.  (T-0).  1.3.1.24.  Ensure procedures are in place for the OPSEC PM, Treaty Compliance Officer, and Intelligence Officer to work together to identify and mitigate the risk associated with Open Skies Treaty observation flights within the commander’s/director’s enterprise.  (T-1).  1.3.1.25  Ensure coordination with other organizations on the installation to ensure the protection of mission critical activities and capabilities.  (T-0).  1.3.2.  The Deputy Chief of Manpower, Personnel & Services (AF/A1):  1.3.2.1.  Ensures pre-deployment OPSEC training is added to “Readiness Training” and “Country-Specific Training Requirements” of the USAF-Wide Personnel Deployment Readiness Tool.  1.3.2.2.  Ensures manpower studies are accomplished to determine appropriate manpower requirements to staff OPSEC across the AF.     1.3.3.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2):  1.3.3.1.  Develops policy and guidance to ensure intelligence functions support OPSEC programs by providing integrated, evaluated, analyzed, and interpreted information concerning foreign nations, hostile or potentially hostile forces or elements, or areas of actual or potential operations.  Intelligence informs the OPSEC PM what the adversary is doing, is capable of doing, and may do in the future.  1.3.3.2.  Assists AF/A3 in the development of training and doctrine programs pertinent to all intelligence aspects of OPSEC.  1.3.3.3. Serves as the proponent for program management of intelligence support to the AF OPSEC Program.  1.3.3.4.  Ensures the annual production and dissemination of threat assessments addressing current and future modifications and enhancement to the collection capabilities for all intelligence disciplines of foreign intelligence entities.    1.3.3.5.  Provides written regional threat assessments in support of OPSEC.  When this is not practical or possible, forward requirements through proper channels to the appropriate threat analysis center.  The written threat information must be updated as necessary to include adversary collection means against an organization’s current situation and environment.    1.3.3.6.  Provide threat assessments of current, updated, and future modification, additions and technical capabilities of collection capabilities regarding Open Skies Treaty observation flights.    1.3.4.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) is responsible for the development of AF OPSEC policy, programs, guidance, and activities.  This responsibility is delegated to the Director of Training and Readiness (AF/A3T) who:  1.3.4.1.  Provides policy, program oversight and resource advocacy for AF OPSEC Programs and initiatives per DoDD 5205.02E.  1.3.4.2.  Appoints a full-time OPSEC PM charged with ensuring the AF plans, executes, and resources OPSEC in line with AF assigned missions and responsibilities.    1.3.4.3.  Establishes and maintains AF OPSEC support capabilities that provide for program development, planning, training, assessments, operational support, and readiness training.    1.3.4.4.  Ensures OPSEC support capabilities are utilized for planning support, external assessments, program development, and mutual support of other vulnerability assessments as well as other assessments within the AF.    1.3.4.5.  Provides the Deputy Under Secretary for Defense (Intelligence) (OUSD(I) an annual assessment of the status of AF OPSEC.   1.3.4.6.  Ensures threat-based comprehensive OPSEC assessments are scheduled and conducted to reduce risk to and enhance mission effectiveness.    1.3.4.6.1.  Identifies and prioritizes threat-based comprehensive OPSEC assessment requirements, develops and outlines procedures for conducting OEA.  1.3.4.6.2.  Ensures OEAs are conducted on activities that warrant them.  These activities may include, but are not limited to AF weapons systems; research, development, test and evaluation; acquisitions; treaty verification; nonproliferation protocols; international agreements; force protection operations; special access programs; and activities that prepare, sustain, or employ military services over the range of military operations.  1.3.4.7.  Supports OPSEC programs at the national, DoD and Joint-level as necessary.  1.3.4.8.  Ensures the integration of intelligence and counterintelligence support into OPSEC planning and implementation.  1.3.4.9.  Ensures the establishment and maintenance of an effective OPSEC awareness, education, and training program.    1.3.4.9.1.  Ensures the AF workforce, to include all contractors who have access to mission critical information receive OPSEC awareness training upon initial entry to duty (to include entry to accession programs such as basic training, commissioning sources, and internships) and annually thereafter.  1.3.4.9.2.  Ensures the risk of exposure to critical or classified information (alone or through compilation) is mitigated by providing OPSEC training and guidance for those using DoD Internet services, other Internet-based capabilities, emerging technologies, or developing information sharing environments that are accessible across the enterprise.  1.3.4.9.3.  Ensures procedures are in place for personnel to complete theater specific OPSEC training prior to deployment.  1.3.4.9.4.  Ensures OPSEC practitioners, IO professionals, public affairs personnel, contracting specialists, and personnel responsible for the review and approval of information intended for public release have received specialized OPSEC training for their duties.    1.3.4.10.  Ensures policies and procedures are established for the review of information for OPSEC considerations and data aggregation prior to public release.  1.3.4.11.  Ensures OPSEC requirements are properly reflected in classified and unclassified contracts.  1.3.4.12.  Establishes and maintains a capability to conduct ongoing OPSEC vulnerability assessments on automated information systems or applications and/or programs designed for net- centric interoperability for data aggregation (e.g., component websites, SharePoint sites, email, radios, telephone, and other communication systems and methods.)  1.3.4.13.  Establishes guidance to identify organizational critical information and indicators in line with mission requirements.  1.3.4.14.  Dedicates manpower, funding, and resources to implement the OPSEC program.    1.3.4.17.  AF OPSEC PM is the appointed adviser to AF Leadership regarding the AF OPSEC Program.  The AF OPSEC PM will:  1.3.4.17.1.  Develop, communicate, and ensure implementation of standards, policies, and procedures that supplement this instruction and meet specific needs of the DoD Component.  1.3.4.17.2.  Identify requirements and necessary resources for the effective implementation of OPSEC.  1.3.4.17.3.  Review and assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the AF OPSEC program.  1.3.4.17.4.  Within 90 days of appointment, complete the required OPSEC training as outlined in Chapter 4 of this instruction.    1.3.4.17.5.  Identify, prioritize, and request OPSEC assessments.  1.3.4.17.6.  Participate in OPSEC training and education reviews and work with OUSD(I) and the Interagency OPSEC Support Staff (IOSS) to identify DoD and Federal OPSEC training requirements.  1.3.4.17.7.  Provide oversight and advocacy as the focal point for AF OPSEC assessment capabilities.  1.3.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations & Mission Support (AF/A4) ensures OPSEC is implemented to protect supply chain, design and testing to counter the threat to AF activities posed by foreign intelligence collection system.  1.3.6.  Secretary of the Air Force Office of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6):  1.3.6.1.  Ensures OPSEC is included in cybersecurity and cyberspace policy, guidance, and operational activities.  1.3.6.2.  Ensures OPSEC measures and practices are correctly reflected in the AF Enterprise Architecture.   1.3.6.3.  Ensures OPSEC is incorporated into the development of net-centric operating environments in order to mitigate risks of classification through compilation of critical information and indicators.  1.3.7.  The Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA):  1.3.7.1.  Ensures OPSEC is considered in the public affairs process for releasing information to the public.  1.3.7.2.  Coordinates with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs and the AF OPSEC Program Office to ensure specialized OPSEC training is included in the curriculum for public affairs specialist and officers at all levels of  training at the Defense Information School.  1.3.7.3.  Ensures public affairs personnel receive specialized OPSEC training in addition to training received at Defense Information School regarding the review and approval of information intended for public release through all available media forums.  (See Chapter 4 of this instruction).  1.3.7.4.  Ensures policy and procedures are established throughout AF Public Affairs to ensure OPSEC reviews are accomplished within the Public Affairs Security and Policy Review process.  1.3.7.5.  Responsible for the oversight and management of all content on official AF external-facing SharePoint and websites.    1.3.7.6.  Establishes and maintains on-going collaboration with information security, OPSEC, and PA professionals to minimize potential OPSEC vulnerabilities on AF SharePoint, websites, and social media profiles.    1.3.8.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ):  1.3.8.1.  Establishes and maintains procedures for OPSEC review of contracts prior to public release.  1.3.8.2.  Ensures OPSEC is included in program protection plans to protect critical information throughout the life-cycle of AF acquisition and RDT&E for critical program information (reference DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within the Department of Defense).    1.3.8.3.  Ensures when applicable, OPSEC requirements are properly reflected in government contracts.  (See Chapter 6 of this instruction for OPSEC responsibilities required within a contract).  1.3.8.4.  Ensures Acquisition, Research and Technology, and OPSEC program managers  work together to protect critical information and indicators throughout the RDT&E life-cycle, especially regarding release of information into the public domain.   1.3.8.5.  Ensures individuals who perform acquisition duties receive appropriate OPSEC training (see Chapter 4 of this instruction) in support of program protection planning.  1.3.9.  The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) provides coordination and integration of OPSEC policy, guidance, and procedures within the AF security community.  1.3.10.  The Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General (SAF/IG):  1.3.10.1.  Ensures OPSEC is included as a mandatory item in the AF Inspection System at all levels throughout the Continual Evaluation period and the On-site Capstone Visit of the Unit Effectiveness Inspection (UEI) process.  1.3.10.2.  Ensures OPSEC PMs are identified as subject matter experts (SME) for OPSEC on Wing Inspection Teams (WIT).  The WIT should observe and evaluate mission profiles and signatures, as well as measures of effectiveness (MOE) and measures of performance (MOP) that assess the organizations ability to mitigate loss of critical information.  1.3.10.3.  Ensures procedures are established for members of IG teams that evaluate OPSEC to receive specialized OPSEC training identified within Chapter 4 of this instruction.  1.3.10.4.  Ensures the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), provides commanders/directors and OPSEC practitioners with AFOSI threat information (e.g., counterintelligence-related information), Local Threat Assessments, Regional Threat Assessments) at CONUS, OCONUS and deployed locations.  AFOSI will:  1.3.10.4.1.  Tailor threat information as requested to support AF OPSEC MOEs and MOPs.    1.3.10.4.2.  Provide support as required to the AF OPSEC Support Team (AF OST).  1.3.10.4.4.  Provide counterintelligence and criminal threat intelligence as requested to support the AF OST in conducting threat-based comprehensive OEA.  This support enhances the AF OST ability to reproduce the intelligence image in light of the known collection capabilities of potential adversaries against friendly capabilities and intentions.  1.3.11.  Air Combat Command (ACC) will:  1.3.11.1.  Manage OPSEC Global Force Management and sourcing of Request for Forces.  1.3.11.2.  Define requirements and advocate for OPSEC resources.  1.3.11.3.  Manage, develop, and implement IO CONOPS and TTPs.  1.3.11.4.  Perform programming and budgeting for Program Elements 23345F and 28021F.   1.3.11.6.  Provide funding for AF personnel to attend AF OPSEC courses.  HAF and MAJCOM OPSEC PMs are responsible for identifying personnel that are eligible within their organizations for TDY funding.     1.3.11.7.  Fund attendance at non-AF OPSEC courses based on operational requirements.  MAJCOM OPSEC PMs will forward request to attend non-AF OPSEC courses to the HAF OPSEC PM and HQ ACC.  The request must include a justification why the AF OPSEC courses cannot meet the organizations operational requirement.  The HAF OPSEC PM is the approval authority for determining validity to fund attendance at non-AF courses.  1.3.12.  Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) will:  1.3.12.1.  Establish, resource, manage, and maintain the AF OST and OPSEC training.  1.3.12.2.  Coordinate and validate current and future CDA WS requirements, processes, and resources with the AF OPSEC PM to meet the needs of the AF OPSEC Program.    1.3.12.3.  Ensure OPSEC and the use of the CDA WS is integrated with other traditional security support capabilities, programs, efforts, or initiatives.    1.3.12.4.  Ensure CDA WS support is provided to the AF OST as required.  1.3.12.5.  Provide CDA capabilities to support OPSEC requirements as identified in this instruction and AFI 10-712, Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Operations and Notice and Consent Process.  (T-1).  1.3.12.6. Provide direct support to commanders, directors, and the AF OPSEC PM by delivering an effective OPSEC support capability.  The AF OST will:   1.3.12.6.1.  Manage and provide OPSEC reach-back support (e.g., awareness education, planning, readiness training, assessments, and operational support) to the AF OPSEC PM and all AF organizations at all levels.  (T-0).    1.3.12.6.2.  Manage and conduct OEAs and OPSEC Program Management Assessments (PMA) to assist organizations in developing effective OPSEC programs.  (T-0).  1.3.12.6.3.  Assist in National, DoD, joint, and AF-level OPSEC activities as tasked.  (T-1).  1.3.12.6.4.  Coordinate with CDA organizations to receive ESSA products regarding the status of potential OPSEC compromises discovered during CDA operations.  (T-2).  1.3.12.6.5.  Coordinate with CDA organizations and the IO Formal Training Unit (FTU) regarding trends observed from assessments for inclusion in future ESSAs and OPSEC curriculum.  (T-2).  1.3.12.6.6.  Provide annual report to AF OPSEC PM regarding OPSEC assessments, their findings, and trend analysis.  (T-1).   1.3.12.6.7.  Assist in the development of OPSEC continuing education and training of the general AF population to include military members, DAFC, contractors, and family members (e.g., Total Force Awareness Training (TFAT), accession training, Professional Military Education (PME), awareness training, Commander Orientation Briefings, Just In Time Training, Readiness Training, Family Awareness Training).  (T-2).  1.3.12.6.8.  Advise, evaluate, and support research and development efforts for OPSEC tools supporting combatant commands.  (T-1)  1.3.12.6.9.  Support the Joint OPSEC Support Element (JOSE) in OPSEC activities as necessary.  (T-1).  1.3.12.6.10.  Manage the AF OPSEC SharePoints sites.  (T-1).    1.3.12.6.11.  Assist with the development and documentation of OPSEC related lessons learned and TTPs.  1.3.12.6.12.  Coordinate with 24th Air Force (24 AF) on support request from MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA organizations regarding OPSEC support request  for AF and Joint organizations.  1.3.12.7.  Establish, resource, and maintain an IO FTU to provide formal OPSEC training to AF OPSEC practitioners.  The FTU will:  1.3.12.7.1.  Maintain IOSS adjunct instructor certification and currency IAW with IOSS procedures.  (T-1).  1.3.12.7.2.  Maintain AF instructor certification and currency IAW AFI 36-2648, Community College of the Air Force (CCAF).  (T-1).  1.3.12.7.3.  Develop and maintain an AF OPSEC adjunct instructor program.  (T-1).  1.3.12.7.4.  Identify, train, and recommend for certification additional AF OPSEC instructors as necessary.  (T-2).  1.3.12.7.5.  Provide OPSEC training and mobile training teams as directed by the AF OPSEC PM (T-1).  1.3.12.7.6.  Support the development of OPSEC training and TTPs.  (T-1).  1.3.12.7.7.  Support AF and DoD-level OPSEC curriculum reviews.  (T-1).  1.3.12.7.8.  Support development of OPSEC policies for education and training as required.  (T-1).   1.3.12.7.9.  Manage training information by ensuring training completion information is provided to the AF OPSEC community and the IOSS as required.  (T-1).  1.3.12.7.10.  Publish a quarterly student critique trend analysis report and upload to the AF OPSEC SharePoint website on Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) NLT the 15th of January, April, July, and October.  (T-3).  1.3.12.7.11.  Upload copies of student and course critique forms to the AF OPSEC SharePoint website on SIPRNet within 10 working days of course completion.  (T-3).  1.3.12.7.12.  Coordinate with the AF OST regarding OPSEC-related trends that should be incorporated within existing OPSEC curriculum.  (T-1).  1.3.13.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will:  1.3.13.1.  Ensure OPSEC is effectively integrated into all RDT&E programs to provide a consistent and effective level of protection throughout the life cycle of all weapon systems IAW DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E), and AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management.  (T-0).  1.3.13.2.  Provide information regarding research and development of camouflage and concealment with regards to the protection of installations, ranges, and test facilities under the purview of AFMC.  (T-1).  1.3.14.  Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will:  1.3.14.1.  Provide OPSEC orientation for all new AF accessions (e.g., Basic Military Training School, and Officer Training School).  At a minimum, the orientation will include the definition and purpose of OPSEC, threat awareness, vulnerabilities, countermeasures, and the individual's role in protecting critical information.  (T-0).  1.3.14.2.  Incorporate OPSEC education into all PME.  At a minimum, this will include the purpose of OPSEC, critical information, indicators, threats, vulnerabilities, countermeasures, and the individual's role in protecting critical information.  (T-0).  1.3.14.3.  Incorporate OPSEC concepts and capabilities into specialized courses, such as the Contingency Wartime Planning Course, Joint Air Operations Planning Course, and the Information Operations Fundamental Application Course.  These courses will include command responsibilities and responsibilities of OPSEC Planners supporting joint planning and execution efforts.  (T-0).  1.3.14.4.  Establish a validation process in coordination with the AF OWG to ensure a content review of all OPSEC training materials within all AETC accession and professional military education.  (T-2).   1.3.15.  US Air Force Academy will provide OPSEC orientation for all new AF accessions.  At a minimum, the orientation will include the definition and purpose of OPSEC, threat awareness, vulnerabilities, countermeasures, and the individual's role in protecting critical information.    1.3.16.  OPSEC PMs serve as the commander’s/directors representative regarding OPSEC and the point of contact (POC) for all OPSEC related issues between the organization’s HHQ OPSEC PM, AF OST, and subordinate organizations.  OPSEC PMs will:  1.3.16.1.  Advise the commander/director on all OPSEC related matters.  (T-0).  1.3.16.2.  Manage the organization’s OPSEC program IAW policies and procedures provided within this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.16.3.  Participate in budget development activities to identify manpower, funding, and resources to effectively implement and sustain the OPSEC program.  (T-0).  1.3.16.4.  Develop and monitor OPSEC program expenditures.  (T-1).  1.3.16.5.  Provide and ensure OPSEC awareness, education and training is completed IAW Chapter 4 of this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.16.6.  Advise the commander/director on the placement of OPSEC Coordinators in a manner that best supports the commander’s/directors OPSEC Program responsibilities.  (T-3).  1.3.16.7.  Provide oversight, guidance, and training to subordinate OPSEC PMs, Coordinators, Planners, and working group members IAW Chapter 4 of this instruction.  Training shall include specific roles and responsibilities associated with the OPSEC function.  (T-0).  1.3.16.8.  Within 90 days of appointment, complete the required OPSEC training outlined in the Chapter 4 of this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.16.9.  Incorporate and institutionalize OPSEC concepts into relevant strategies, operations, plans, programs, budgets, exercises, training, and evaluation methods.  (T-0).  1.3.16.10.  Develop, implement, distribute, and annually review for currency the commander’s OPSEC guidance and procedures (e.g., CIIL, SOPs, OPSEC Program Implementation Plan).  (T-0).  1.3.16.11.  Develop, establish, and implement policies and procedures to deny adversaries the opportunity to take advantage of publicly available information, especially when aggregated.  (T-0).  1.3.16.12.  Develop and implement procedures to control signatures and associated indicators of AF activities.  Annually review for currency and effectiveness.  (T-0).   1.3.16.13.  Ensure all subordinate organizations have implemented OPSEC in their day-to-day activities and are identifying critical information and indicators for each relevant AF activity whether it be planned, conducted, or supported.  (T-0).  1.3.16.14.  Coordinate with intelligence providers (e.g., A2, AFOSI, Defense Intelligence Agency) to identify the intelligence needs of the organization’s OPSEC program.  (T-0).  1.3.16.15.  As required, participate in HHQ planning and working groups (e.g., OWG, Threat, Anti-Terrorism, Force-Protection working groups) to assist in the development of policy and guidance, TTPs, and to address OPSEC concerns.  (T-2).  1.3.16.16.  As required, establish and chair OWG to address OPSEC concerns and train OWG members.  (T-0).  1.3.16.18.  Coordinate with host and tenant organization OPSEC PMs regarding the implementation of OPSEC countermeasures between organizations on an installation.  Administrative oversight of a Wing’s OPSEC program will reside with its respective MAJCOM or HAF DRU.  (T-3).  1.3.16.19.  Assist as necessary PA, IP, contracting, Cybersecurity, and other officials in the review of information intended for release outside the organization.  (T-3).  1.3.16.20.  Coordinate as necessary with the Foreign Disclosure and Protocol offices on visits by Foreign Nationals (e.g., Air Attaches, other military, military personnel exchange) to ensure critical information and indicators are protected from adversarial collection opportunities.  (T-3).  1.3.16.21.  Coordinate on contracting documents to ensure contract requirements explicitly state contractor OPSEC responsibilities and requirements in order to protect critical information and indicators for the activity, operation, program that is being contracted.  (T-0).  1.3.16.22.  Provide OPSEC training materials to organizations, which have/require contract support.  Within 30 days of a contract being awarded, organizations will provide training/training materials to the prime contractor and/or AF contractors newly assigned to the organization.  (T-3).  1.3.16.23.  Annually, review and assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the organization’s OPSEC program.  (T-0).  1.3.16.24.  Annually, review for currency and effectiveness subordinate organization’s procedures to control critical information and associated indicators.  (T-3).  1.3.16.25.  Conduct an OPSEC analysis for each phase of a plan and evaluate each course of action against the commander’s acceptable level of risk.  (T-0).  1.3.16.26.  Conduct Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) as required or requested to assist in OPSEC planning or provide assistance in operationalizing OPSEC in the wing.  (T-3).   1.3.16.27.  Serve as the focal point for OPSEC assessments and supporting capabilities.  (T-2).  1.3.16.28.  Provide assistance and develop possible scenarios (e.g., OPSEC activities, areas/functions, validating self-assessments, evaluating scenarios, participating in the hot wash, and providing inputs to the inspection report) to/for Wing and HHQ IG teams to assist in the evaluation of OPSEC activities.  This ensures the OPSEC planning processes and the execution of OPSEC measures are properly trigger during inspection activities.  (T-2).  1.3.16.29.  The MAJCOM, HAF DRU, and FOA level OPSEC PMs, manage the command’s CDA WS and AF OST support through directing, soliciting, prioritizing, and consolidating assessment requests IAW AFI 10-712, Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Operations and Notice and Consent Process and Chapter 5 of this instruction.  (T-1).  1.3.16.30.  Collect after-action reports and lessons learned for incorporation into future OPSEC courseware and the AF lessons learned database when applicable, as prescribed IAW AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program.  (T-2).  1.3.16.31.  Annually provide a list of Information Defense Priorities specific to that command to CDA units for inclusion into the continuous monitoring mission IAW AFI 10-712.  NOTE:   (MAJCOM, AF DRU, and AF FOAs only).  (T-2).    1.3.16.32.  Request focused look CDA assessments through the  24th Air Force (24 AF) IAW AFI 10-712.  (T-2).  A Focused Look Assessment can cover multiple organizations, installations, or locations.  1.3.16.33.  Review, assess impact, risk, and update countermeasures as required using the results for the CDA assessments.  (T-1).  1.3.16.34.  Coordinate with appropriate organizations to resolve/mitigate OPSEC assessment observations as required.  Utilize assessment results to mitigate discovered vulnerabilities and aid organization’s OPSEC awareness efforts.  (T-0).  1.3.16.35.  Coordinate and deconflict implementation of OPSEC countermeasures with other MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs and Wings on the installation.  (T-1).  NOTE: The best way to accomplish this is through an installation OWG.  1.3.16.36.  Conduct an OPSEC program review to determine the stability of the OPSEC program and provide the commander/director with an OPSEC Program Report IAW guidance from Chapter 5 of this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.16.37.  Due to sensitivity of the mission and need for access to Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) threat information, OPSEC PMs should maintain a TS/SCI clearance.   1.3.16.38.  OPSEC PMs are required to establish and maintain a SIPRNet email address to have access to classified threat information and OPSEC task.  (T.1).    1.3.16.39.  Recommend OPSEC PMs establish and maintain a Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS) account to access TS threat information to enhance the development of effective countermeasures to mitigate risk to operational missions.  1.3.16.40.  Maintain a continuity system to include at a minimum the following OPSEC documents for a period of two years or when no longer need (whichever is longer).  (T-1).  1.3.16.40.1.  Letters of appointment  1.3.16.40.2.  OWG POC Listing  1.3.16.40.3.  Approved waivers  1.3.16.40.4.  Request for formal training  1.3.16.40.5.  Organizational specific training  1.3.16.40.6.  List of major mission processes  1.3.16.40.7.  Approved CIIL   1.3.16.40.8.  Annual OPSEC Program reports  1.3.16.40.9.  Annual OPSEC Internal Assessment  1.3.16.40.10.  OEA (e.g., ESSA, AF OST, JOSE)  1.3.16.40.11.  Requests for information (intelligence and counterintelligence)  1.3.16.40.12.  Threat analysis for your organization   1.3.16.40.13.  List of Organizational vulnerabilities.   1.3.16.40.14.  Organization’s risk assessments (before and after proposed countermeasures are implemented)  1.3.16.40.15.  Proposed countermeasures (costs of implementing those countermeasures, and those countermeasures chosen to implement)   1.3.16.40.16.  MOP(s) and MOE(s) for countermeasures  1.3.16.40.17.  After-action reports (Intelligence and AFOSI Reports, organization exercise, and other assessments used to determine the effectiveness of countermeasures)    1.3.16.40.18.  OPSEC related incident reports  1.3.17.  The OPSEC Planner is a functional expert trained to integrate OPSEC as an IRC, into the organization’s planning process using AF standards, policies, procedures and this instruction as guidance.  The OPSEC Planner supports the OPSEC PM in ensuring OPSEC is incorporated into the planning process to protect the overall planning and execution of operational activities.  The OPSEC Planner will:  1.3.17.1.  Within 90 days of appointment, complete the required OPSEC training outlined in Chapter 4 of this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.17.2.  Provide OPSEC planning and guidance in accordance with the organization’s OPSEC programs and policies to protect the plan.  (T-0).  1.3.17.3.  Develop OPSEC planning documents for inclusion in all organizational plans.  Review planning documents annually and update when necessary.  Consider changes in the threat, vulnerabilities, impact to the plan, and the MOE and MOP of implemented countermeasures.  (T-0).  1.3.17.4.  Coordinate with intelligence and counterintelligence providers to identify the intelligence needs for the OPSEC plan.  (T-0).  1.3.17.5.  Identify and ensure the integration of OPSEC measures/countermeasures into the plan to reduce vulnerabilities and indicators.  (T-0).  1.3.17.6.  Coordinate the integration of OPSEC measures/countermeasures with other information-related capabilities.  (T-0).  1.3.17.7.  Due to sensitivity of the mission and the need for access to Top Secret threat data OPSEC Planners should maintain a Top Secret SCI clearance.  1.3.17.8.  Develop and synchronize OPSEC measures across multiple subordinate units as needed.    1.3.17.9.  Coordinate with other MAJCOM/Area of Responsibility OPSEC Planners for OPSEC measures/counters during events and/or operations that involve cross-reginal activities.  (T-2).  1.3.18.  OPSEC Coordinators serve an important function within the OPSEC Program structure as they assist the OPSEC PM and Planner regarding OPSEC related matters within their assigned organizations, to include developing and recommending guidance and implementing countermeasures to mitigate the risk of potential adversary exploitation of critical information and indicators.  OPSEC Coordinators will:  1.3.18.1.  Implement and distribute the commander’s OPSEC guidance (e.g., CIILs, memorandums, SOPs, OPSEC implementation plans as required).  (T-3).   1.3.18.2.  Within 90 days of appointment, complete the required OPSEC training outlined in Chapter 4 of this instruction.  (T-0).   1.3.18.3.  When necessary, assist the OPSEC PM in reviewing and updating OPSEC guidance and procedures for currency.  (T-3).  1.3.18.4.  Implement procedures per guidance from the OPSEC PM to control signatures and associated indicators to deny adversaries the opportunity to take advantage of publicly available information, especially when aggregated.  (T-3).  1.3.18.5.  Ensure critical information and indicators are protected from disclosure.  (T-0).  1.3.18.6.  Ensure organizational personnel (military, DAFC, and contractors) complete initial and annual refresher OPSEC training IAW Chapter 4 of this instruction.  (T-3).  1.3.18.7.  When necessary, assist the OPSEC PM in conducting OPSEC internal assessments to ensure sufficient protection measures are in place to protect critical information and indicators.  (See Chapter 5 of this instruction for additional information regarding OPSEC internal assessments).  (T-3).  1.3.18.8.  When necessary, conduct OPSEC reviews of organizational documents and photographs prior to them being submitted to Public Affairs and/or release to the public.  (T-3).    1.3.18.9.  When necessary, assist the OPSEC PM in ensuring OPSEC is considered for all organizational contracts.  (See Chapter 6 for additional information regarding OPSEC and Contracts).  (T-3).  1.3.18.10.  Due to sensitivity of the mission and the need for access to Secret threat data, OPSEC Coordinators require a minimum of a Secret clearance.  (T-1).    1.3.18.11.  OPSEC Coordinators should establish and maintain a SIPRNet email address to have access to classified threat information and OPSEC task.  1.3.19.  All Air Force Personnel: OPSEC is everyone’s responsibility.  Ideally, the AF uses OPSEC countermeasures to protect its critical information.  Failure to properly implement these countermeasures can result in serious injury or death to our personnel; damage to weapons systems, equipment and facilities; loss of sensitive technologies; and mission degradation or failure.  OPSEC is a continuous process and an inherent part of military culture.  Integrate OPSEC into the execution of all AF activities All AF personnel (active duty, reserve, ANG, DAFCs, and DoD contractors) will:   1.3.19.1.  Be familiar with the organization’s critical information and indicators.  (T-0).  1.3.19.2.  Protect critical information and indicators from disclosure.  (T-0).   1.3.19.2.1.  This includes, but is not limited to: letters, resumes, articles, books, collegiate papers, electronic mail (e-mail), social media postings, web log (blog) postings, internet message board discussions, or other forms of dissemination or documentation.  1.3.19.2.2.  Airmen should solicit the advice of their immediate supervisor, security office, OPSEC PM, and/or OPSEC Coordinator when publicly posting or publishing work-related information to internet-based capabilities.  This will aid in preventing disclosure of critical information and indicators within the public domain.  1.3.19.2.3.  Encrypt all e-mail messages containing critical information and OPSEC indicators IAW AFMAN 17-1201, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems; para 6.6.2.7 and this instruction.  (T-0).  1.3.19.2.4.  Do not publicly disseminate, or publish photographs displaying critical information.  (T-0).  Examples include but are not limited to: Improvised Explosive Device strikes, battle scenes, casualties, destroyed or damaged equipment, personnel killed in action (both friendly and adversary), and the protective measures of military facilities.  (T-0).  1.3.19.2.5.  Do not publicly reference, disseminate, correct, or publish critical information or indicators already compromised.  (T-0).  This provides further unnecessary exposure of the compromised information and may serve as validation.  1.3.19.2.6.  Actively encourage others (including family members and family readiness groups) to protect critical information and indicators.  (T-3).  1.3.19.2.7.  Destroy (e.g., burn, shred) all products (e.g., official and working papers, hard drives, disks, tapes, recordings) containing critical information or indicators when no longer needed to prevent the reconstruction, inadvertent disclosure or exploitation of critical information.  (T-0).  1.3.19.3.  Implement countermeasures as ordered by the commander, director, or an individual in an equivalent position.  (T-3).  1.3.19.4.  Avoid discussing critical information on non-secure telephones, cellular, or satellite telephone.  (T-1).  1.3.19.5.  Know who their organization’s OPSEC PM and/or OPSEC Coordinator are and contact them for questions, concerns, or recommendations for OPSEC related topics.  (T-0).  Chapter 2  OPSEC PROCESS  2.1.  General: The OPSEC process is a systematic method used to identify, control, and protect critical information.  This chapter presents the five elements of the OPSEC process as steps: 1) Identify critical information; 2) Analyze threats; 3) Analyze vulnerabilities; 4) Assess risk; and 5) Apply countermeasures.  These steps may or may not be used in sequential order but all elements must be present to conduct OPSEC analysis.  During deliberate or crisis action planning, dynamic situations may require any step to be revisited at any time.  The AF uses OPSEC to enhance mission effectiveness by managing operational signatures.  Additionally, a profiling process is employed to identified and understand how we use specific information systems and conduits to accomplish operational missions and activities.  Within the AF, process-related subject matter experts (SME) are consulted to create the most accurate list of critical information, the identification of vulnerabilities and indicators allowing us to conduct a thorough risk analysis.  This risk analysis provides AF leadership with options, based on the risk analysis results, to manage signatures in order to protect AF activities.  2.2.  Identify Critical Information:  2.2.1.  Critical information is a specific fact about friendly activities, intentions, capabilities, or limitations that an adversary seeks in order to gain a military, diplomatic, economic, or technological advantage.  Such information, if revealed to an adversary, may prevent or degrade mission accomplishment, cause loss of life or damage friendly resources.  This step only identifies potential critical information items.  The resulting CIIL should not be published as the unit’s official CIIL until the remainder of the OPSEC process has been accomplished.  Other steps within the OPSEC process may remove, refine, or add additional items from/to the list.  2.2.2.  The identification of critical information is a key part of the OPSEC process because it focuses the remainder of the OPSEC process on protecting vital information rather than attempting to protect all unclassified information.  The individuals responsible for the planning and execution of the organization’s mission are the ones that can best identify their critical information.  Additionally, using an adversarial approach and asking what information an adversary wants to know about the mission is a helpful method when trying to identify critical information.   2.2.3.  Once you have completed the OPSEC process, compile the critical information and indicators identified into a CIIL, obtain the commander/director approval, and disseminate it to all organizational personnel to ensure they are aware of the information which requires protection.  2.2.4.  Identify critical information at the earliest stages of planning an operation or activity and continuously update as necessary to support mission effectiveness.  2.2.5.  Strive to keep CIILs unclassified.  CIILs are to assist with reminding personnel to protect related critical information and indicators.  If some critical information is considered For Official  Use Only (FOUO), include that information in an FOUO OPSEC Implementation Plan with associated countermeasures, but do not include on the publically distributed CIIL.  2.2.6.  OPSEC PMs/Coordinators will maintain the most currently approved CIIL and countermeasures IAW their established Wing OPSEC procedures.  (T-3).    2.2.7.  Reports of compromised critical information will be sent over SIPRNet or JWICS in memorandum format to the MAJCOM or AF DRU OPSEC PM.  (T-1).  2.2.8.  OPSEC PMs will forward OPSEC compromised incident reports to their MAJCOM or AF DRU OPSEC PM.  Sanitize all OPSEC compromised incident reports to safeguard the identity of personnel involved.  If the commander/director deems an OPSEC compromised incident report requires HHQ notification or resolution, forward the related report to the next HHQ OPSEC NLT 15 days after the signing of the report.  (T-2).  Maintain a copy of the report and any actions taken in the organizations OPSEC Continuity records IAW Chapter 1 of this instruction.  2.3.  Analyze Threats:  2.3.1.  A threat is an adversary with the capability and intent to undertake action detrimental to mission success, to include associated program activities and/or operations.  An adversary is any entity with goals counter to your own.  2.3.2.  Threat information is necessary to understand what to protect and subsequently develop appropriate countermeasures.  Analyzing threat includes identifying potential adversaries and their associated capabilities and intentions to collect, analyze and exploit critical information and indicators.  2.3.3.  Analyzing threat involves the research and analysis of intelligence, counterintelligence, and open-source information to identify the likely adversaries to the planned operation.  The operation planners, working with the intelligence and counterintelligence staffs, assisted by the OPSEC PM, will seek answers to the following threat questions:  2.3.3.1.  Who is the adversary? (who has the intent and capability to take action against the mission?  Who are the friends of these adversaries?  Who are our potential adversaries?).  2.3.3.2.  What are the adversary’s intentions and goals?  (What does the adversary want to accomplish?).  2.3.3.3.  What are the adversary’s intelligence collection capabilities (e.g., Human Intelligence, Imagery Intelligence, Signals Intelligence, Measurement and Signature Intelligence, Open Source Intelligence)?  2.3.3.4.  What are the adversary’s tactics (course of action (COA) for opposing the mission (What actions might the adversary take)?   2.3.3.5.  What critical information or indicators does the adversary already know about the operation (what information is it too late to protect)?  2.3.3.6.  What is the adversary’s methodology for collecting on friendly forces?  2.3.4.  AFOSI provides local and counterintelligence threat information.  Intelligence organizations provides tailored intelligence threat support.  Threats can include, but are not limited to: foreign intelligence services, foreign and domestic terrorist organizations, criminals, cyber-based threats, lone extremists, and economic competitors.  Reports from cyberspace organizations can be used to assess cyber threats and vulnerabilities.  2.4.  Analyze Vulnerabilities:   2.4.1.  A vulnerability exists when the adversary is capable of collecting critical information and/or indicators, correctly analyzing them and acting quickly enough to impact friendly objectives.    2.4.2.  An adversary exploits vulnerabilities to obtain critical information.  The adversary then uses the information collected to support their decision-making process thus obtaining an operational advantage.  The vulnerability can be in an organization’s procedures, a failure of traditional security, poor judgment on the part of leadership, lack of threat awareness, the fact that we process critical information on unsecure information systems without encryption, or the system design itself.  Conducting exercises and analyzing operations can help identify vulnerabilities.  2.4.3.  An indicator is a friendly detectable action and/or open-source information that can be interpreted or pieced together by an adversary to derive critical information.  All indicators have characteristics making them identifiable or causing them to standout.  The characteristics of an indicator are: 1) signatures, 2) profiles, 3) associations, 4) contrast, and 5) exposure.  2.4.4.  A vulnerability analysis is the examination of your processes, projects or missions to determine if you have inherent, naturally occurring or self-induced vulnerabilities or indicators that put your critical information and thus your mission at risk. .   2.5.  Assess Risk :  2.5.1.  Risk is a measure of the potential degree to which critical information is subject to loss through adversary exploitation.  The assessment of risk evaluates the degree of probable harm or adverse impact that a vulnerability or combination of vulnerabilities may cause if exploited by an adversary.  It involves assessing the adversary’s ability to exploit vulnerabilities that would lead to the exposure of critical information and the potential impact it would have on the mission.  Determining the level of risk is a key element of the OPSEC process and provides justification for the use of countermeasures.  A planning group must conduct a risk assessment and develop recommended countermeasures based on operational planning and the current operating environment.  A typical risk assessment will:   2.5.1.1.  Determine the level of risk by comparing the vulnerabilities identified with the probability of an adversary being able to exploit those vulnerabilities and the impact if exploited.  2.5.2.  Once the amount of risk is determined, identify potential countermeasures to reduce the vulnerabilities with the highest risk.  The most desirable countermeasures are those combining the highest possible protection with the least resource requirements and/or adverse effect on mission goals.  2.5.3.  consider the cost, time, and effort of implementing measures and countermeasures to mitigate risk.  Factors to consider include:  2.5.3.1.  What are the benefits and the proposed countermeasures on reducing risks compared to the effects on the mission?  2.5.3.2.  What is the cost of the proposed countermeasure compared with the cost associated with the impact if the adversary exploited the vulnerability?  2.5.3.3.  Will implementing the countermeasure create a new OPSEC indicator?  2.6.  Apply Countermeasures:   2.6.1.  Countermeasures are anything which negates or reduces an adversary’s ability to exploit our vulnerabilities.  Countermeasures are designed to prevent an adversary from detecting critical information, provide an alternative interpretation of critical information or indicators (deception), or deny the adversary the ability to utilize their collection system to exploit our operations.  Countermeasures may be both offensive and defensive in nature (e.g., camouflage, concealment, deception, intentional deviations from normal patterns, direct strikes against adversary collection capabilities, etc.).  If the commander/director determines the amount of risk is unacceptable, implement countermeasures to mitigate risk and reduce it to an acceptable level.  2.6.2.  The planning group will submit recommended countermeasures for commander/director approval through the established organizational processes.  2.6.3.  Countermeasures must be synchronized and integrated with other IRCs to achieve synergies in efforts to influence the adversary’s perceptions and situational awareness.    2.6.4.  Countermeasures must be coordinated with other affected organizations to ensure they do not become vulnerabilities or unacceptable indicators.  2.6.5.  During the execution of countermeasures, monitor the adversary’s reaction, if possible, to provide feedback that can be used to assess effectiveness or determine potential unintended consequences.  2.7.  Signature Management.  Commanders manage operational signatures to identify processes and details within an AF activity in order to defend or exploit operational profiles.   2.7.1.  Defense of operational profiles are accomplished by implementing countermeasures to deny or mitigate adversary collection of critical information.   2.7.2.  Using a profiling process, the OPSEC PM defines the local operating environment and captures process points that present key signatures and profiles with critical information value.  This process is the deliberate effort to identify functional areas and the observables they produce to contribute to the overall signature of day-to-day activities and operational trends.  Once completed, use the results to develop an organizational execution checklist, organizational CIILs, and identify key process points for potential protection or exploitation.  This ultimately provides commanders several options to exploit or deny operational signatures to enhance mission effectiveness.         Chapter 3  OPSEC PLANNING  3.1.  General.  This Chapter provides direction for planners at wings, AF component headquarters, and AOCs (e.g., C-MAJCOM, AFFOR, AOC) to integrate OPSEC into plans.  OPSEC is conducted continuously across the range of military operations.  The continuous planning, implementation, and assessment of countermeasures throughout military operations enhance a commander’s ability to shape the information environment, achieve desired effects, and meet operational objectives.  The basic principles, capabilities, and activities of OPSEC planning remain the same whether units are at home station or deployed—only the specific focus of the planning process change.  OPSEC planning is most effective in war or contingencies when integrated with other IRCs and are part of strategy development, planning, and execution phases of operations.  AF forces can be under observation at their peacetime bases and locations during normal daily operations, in training or exercises, while moving, or when deployed to the field conducting actual operations.  OPSEC provides systematic and comprehensive analysis designed to identify observable friendly actions that could portray intentions and/or capabilities.  Therefore, integrate OPSEC into operations, support, exercise, and acquisition planning.  Review plans annually and update as needed.  Consider changes in the threat, vulnerabilities, impact to the plan, and MOEs and MOPs of implemented countermeasures.  3.1.1.  OPSEC PMs or Coordinators will assist organizational planners to incorporate protection of critical information and indicators into supported operations plans (OPLANs) and supporting plans.  OPSEC PMs and Coordinators will also assist WIT members and exercise planners in developing master scenario events listings (MSEL) and MOPs to train organization personnel in the application or execution of countermeasures.  (T-1).  3.1.2.  A sound understanding of the adversary’s capability to exploit OPSEC vulnerabilities is fundamental to proper OPSEC planning.  3.2.  OPSEC Program Plans: OPSEC Program Plans outline the broad OPSEC Program objectives for the AF organization/activity.  A useful format for an OPSEC Program Plan is as follows:   3.2.1.  References: This instruction and other OPSEC references as applicable.  3.2.2.  Purpose: To establish OPSEC within an organization or AF activity.    3.2.3.  Scope: Concise statement of the program/activity.  3.2.4.  Policy: Statement of Command Policy on protection of critical information.  3.2.5.  Process/Procedures: Detailed explanation of the activities, methods, and results of the five-step OPSEC Process.   3.2.6.  Responsibilities: Designation of the OPSEC PM, Coordinator, and Office of Primary Responsibility of the activity.   3.2.7.  OPSEC Evaluation: How OPSEC will be evaluated within the organization/activity (e.g., OPSEC internal assessments, Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT).    3.2.8.  Program Goals: List specific benchmarks for the organization’s OPSEC Program/activity (e.g., establish an OWG, accomplish annual OPSEC training, accomplish annual OPSEC internal assessment, publish an OPSEC Annex to all OPlans).  3.3.  Operations Planning.  OPSEC will be included in all OPLANs, concept plans (CONPLANs), and operation orders (OPORDS), etc.  Planners will use existing TTPs to develop Tab C to Appendix 3 to Annex C to the OPORD or OPLAN.  The planning staff will identify critical information and OPSEC indicators from all functional areas requiring protection throughout each phase of the operation.  Use risk assessments to identify applicable countermeasures to mitigate any unacceptable operational risks.  Develop MOPs and MOEs for each OPSEC countermeasure.  (T-0).  3.3.1.  Operational planning is typically focused at the Air Force component headquarters, with reach-back support outside the theater when appropriate.  When planning duties are split, all responsible entities will integrate OPSEC into their planning efforts (see also JP 3-13.3, Operations Security, Chapter 3).  When there is no C- MAJCOM, as the supported organization, the theater AOC resolves debates and provide general guidance.    3.3.2.  Component headquarters will include in their OPSEC plan the CIIL, threats, vulnerabilities, countermeasures, and points of contact for supporting organizations (e.g. wings/wing-equivalents deploying for exercises, operations, and/or systems under development and sustainment).  This action will occur as soon as the organization(s) are identified so that critical information can be protected before there are compromises to operations or system acquisitions.  OPSEC Plans will be classified IAW respective security classification guidance.  (T-0).  3.3.3.  Proper OPSEC planning ensures that sensitivities of friendly operations are identified, vulnerabilities to the hostile intelligence threat are assessed, and protective measures are identified and executed.  3.3.4.  OPSEC Planning Sequence.  OPSEC is a systematic process encompassing all aspects of security.  Below are recommended actions to take to provide a positive and effective OPSEC plan.  Although the following steps are not all inclusive, they serve as a point of consideration during the planning process:  3.3.4.1.  Prepare an OPSEC estimate of the situation. To include what the adversary may already know about the organization/exercise/operations/activity.  3.3.4.2.  Issue OPSEC planning guidance.   3.3.4.3.  Identify Protective Measures and Countermeasures.  3.3.4.4.  Prepare OPSEC plans.  3.3.4.5.  Brief participants.  3.3.4.6.  Execute protective measures and monitor the situation.  3.3.4.7.  Provide OPSEC follow-up.  3.4.  Support Planning.  Integrate OPSEC into all wartime and contingency plans as well as support plans (e.g., programming plans and in-garrison expeditionary site plans).  Note: See AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary (BAS&E) Site Planning, for In-garrison Expeditionary Support Plan requirements and format.  3.5.  Exercise Planning.  In order to enhance combat readiness and improve crisis response include OPSEC in exercise plans.  Include specific OPSEC scenarios in the exercise MSELs with MOPs and MOEs to assess the proficiency of functional planners to mitigate loss of critical information and organization personnel to execute countermeasures.  Plan and implement OPSEC countermeasures for exercises to minimize observations of sensitive training activities by adversary surveillance and treaty verification activities.  3.5.1.  Submit deficiencies or best practices to the MAJCOM OPSEC PM for inclusion into the AF Lessons Learned (L2) database (https://www.jllis.mil/usaf/).  3.5.2.  Submit L2 and After-Action Reports (AAR) to MAJCOM OPSEC PMs within 45 days of completion of the exercise or operation when something significant or potentially useful was identified during the event.  These documents are used to develop tactics improvement proposals (TIPs) IAW AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, and AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program.  3.5.3.  L2 Validation and Resolution: MAJCOM OPSEC PMs review and track L2 observations to ensure accuracy and applicability.  3.6.  OPSEC Planning for Acquisitions.  OPSEC requirements will be determined for all acquisitions and contractor-supported efforts beginning with operational capabilities, requirements generation, and continue through design, supply chain protection, development, test and evaluation, fielding, sustainment and system disposal.  When required to protect sensitive military activities, commanders will ensure an OPSEC plan is developed for all applicable contracts.  (T-0).        Chapter 4  OPSEC AWARENESS EDUCATION AND TRAINING  4.1.  General.  All AF personnel (military, DAFC, and DoD contractors) who have access to mission critical information require a general knowledge of threats, vulnerabilities, countermeasures, and their responsibilities associated with protecting critical information.  OPSEC education is a continuous rather than periodic requirement.  All personnel require OPSEC education upon their initial entrance/accession into the work force, and annually thereafter.    4.2.  Initial and Annual OPSEC Awareness Education:  4.2.1.  Initial AF OPSEC Awareness Education should provide a brief overview of the OPSEC process, explanation of OPSEC, its purpose, the organization’s critical information, the importance of understanding critical information, the individual’s role in protecting it, and the general adversary threat.  4.2.2.  The AF OPSEC PM will provide standardized base-line OPSEC Awareness Education materials directly to the MAJCOM, AF DRU, and FOA OPSEC PM for distribution to the field.  Commanders/Directors may use this standardized training to provide annual OPSEC training via commander’s call, training days, or similar events.  This training may be supplemented with other information and promotional efforts to ensure maintenance of awareness and understanding of both adversary threat and of the techniques employed by adversaries to collect classified and sensitive information.  4.2.3.  Annual OPSEC Awareness training must include, at a minimum, updated threat information, changes to critical information, new procedures, and/or OPSEC measures implemented by the organization.  (T-0).  4.2.4.  OPSEC Awareness Education will be recorded and maintained by OPSEC PMs through locally developed means.  (T-1).   4.2.5.  Contractors with OPSEC requirements within a contract must ensure employees receive OPSEC training as specified in the contract.  Accomplishment of training must not exceed 90 days from initial assignment to a contract with OPSEC requirements.  Access to mission critical information will not be allowed until OPSEC awareness training has been completed and documented.  (T-0).  4.2.6.  The circulation of directives, memos for record, posters, or similar material on a “read and initial” basis shall not be utilized as a sole means of fulfilling any of the specific requirements of OPSEC education.  (T-0).  4.2.7.  Commanders/directors should encourage personnel to share OPSEC awareness information with family members (both immediate and extended) and friends.  This will allow family members and friends to understand how adversaries could use public media sources to  obtain critical information that may be used to target AF members and their families (e.g., websites, blogs, social networking sites, newspapers, and television).    4.2.8.  Procurement of low-cost promotional items and awareness aids (e.g., pens, pencils, magnets, key chains, lanyards) are authorized for the exclusive intent to promote and reinforce OPSEC awareness and training in accordance with organizational missions.  For Guidance, refer to AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.  4.3.  Mission-Oriented OPSEC Awareness Training:  4.3.1.  Mission-oriented OPSEC Awareness training is event-driven and ensures all locally assigned AF personnel are familiar with potential threats related to the organization, critical information for the mission it supports, job specific OPSEC indicators, and the OPSEC measures unique to that specific duty assignment.  4.3.2.  Mission-oriented OPSEC Awareness training may be combined with annual OPSEC Awareness training.  Mission-oriented training must include, at a minimum, updated threat information, changes to CIIL, and/or new OPSEC procedures, and/or measures implemented by the organization.  (T-0).  4.3.3.  Mission-oriented OPSEC awareness training may be directed by the commander/director to address specific events not covered by annual OPSEC training (e.g., Personally Identifiable Information (PII) breaches, change of mission, updates to the CIIL, recurring OPSEC disclosures, new threats and/or vulnerabilities, countermeasures).    4.3.4.  Access to mission critical information will not be allowed until mission-oriented OPSEC awareness training has been completed and documented.  (T-3).  4.4.  OPSEC Pre-Deployment Training:  Deploying personnel are provided OPSEC training prior to departure to bring awareness of what information in regards to the deployment requires protection prior to and while in transit to the deployed location.  Obtain theater-specific information, which requires protection, from the deployed locations OPSEC PM.  4.5.  AF OPSEC and other Training Courses:  (See Table 4.1, AF OPSEC Education and Training Requirements, within this instruction for applicable courses).  4.5.1.  Air Force OPSEC Course.  The AF OPSEC Course is required for all AF OPSEC PMs, Instructors, AF OST members, OPSEC Planners, and IO Officers (14F).  (T-1)  It is especially useful and should be attended by MILDEC PMs/Planners assigned to Major Commands (MAJCOM), Air Component Commander’s staff, numbered A-Staff, or deemed necessary via MAJCOM discretion.  4.5.1.1.  Individuals who have completed the AF OPSEC Course will not need to take the following courses, AF Identity Management (IdM), OPSEC and Public Release Decisions (OPSE-1500), OPSEC Analysis (OPSE-2380), OPSEC Program Management (OPSE-2390), or OPSEC Analysis and Program Management (OPSE-2500).  4.5.1.2.  The AF OPSEC Course educates students on how to identify observable activities and operational trends that reveal critical information and indicators to potential adversaries.  The course provides training on how to develop and maintain an OPSEC program and hands-on activities and instruction on how to incorporate OPSEC TTPs across the range of military operations.  This training postures AF organizations to plan and execute flexible and adaptive activities, while protecting our own, in support of HHQ and commander’s objectives/effects.  Subjects covered include OPSEC program management, basic MILDEC fundamentals, Public Release Considerations for OPSEC, AF IdM, profiling process, OPSEC Process, countermeasure development, checklist development, coordination, synchronization, planning, and implementation considerations, security and administrative fundamentals, and practical exercises.  Once completed the student will have a better understanding on how to effectively identify critical information, vulnerabilities, and indicators within an organization and implement OPSEC countermeasures to protect operations.    4.5.1.3  The AF OPSEC Course must be completed within 90 days of appointment to OPSEC duties.  (T-0).  4.5.1.4.  If scheduling conflicts exist, the HHQ OPSEC PM must document and ensure the OPSEC Practitioner is scheduled for the next available course not to exceed 180 days.  If training is not completed within 180 days, OPSEC PMs must report training deficiencies through the Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS) with a get well date.  (T-0).  4.5.2.  Defense OPSEC Planners Course (DOPC).  The DOPC provides OPSEC Planners, IO Instructors, and AF OST members training to effectively plan, integrate, conduct, and assess Joint OPSEC at the joint/operational level, across the range of military operations in accordance with applicable doctrine, policy, and authorities, as well as to enhance corporate knowledge of vulnerabilities associated with operations and plans for the joint warfighter.    4.5.2.1.  OPSEC Planners and Instructors will complete the DOPC within 90 days of assignment to OPSEC duties or when a class becomes available, whichever comes first.  (T-2).  Though OPSEC PMs are not required to attend the DOPC, they may attend with the concurrence of their MAJCOM or AF DRU OPSEC PM.    4.5.2.2.  The DOPC course schedule and registration information is available on the Joint Forces Staff College website.    4.5.3.  OPSEC Fundamentals Training.  This is the primary OPSEC course for OPSEC Coordinators and the prerequisite course to attend all formal OPSEC training courses.  The OPSE 1301, OPSEC Fundamentals course found on ADLS and the IOSS websites, satisfies this AF requirement.    4.5.3.1.  OPSEC Fundamentals training provides a basic working knowledge of OPSEC and how it affects both work and personal life.  The course focuses on the history of OPSEC, the OPSEC process as described in NSDD-298, and provides students with the opportunity to practice OPSEC in a modern scenario.     4.5.3.2.  OPSEC PMs, OPSEC Coordinators, IO Planners, assessment and inspection team members, and OPSEC OWG members assigned to OPSEC duties are required to complete OPSEC Fundamentals training within 30 days of assignment.  This course is also, designed for personnel who require knowledge of the OPSEC process, but who will not necessarily be required to perform OPSEC risk analysis.  (T-0).  4.5.4.  AF IdM Course.  This training introduces the student to common threats, vulnerabilities, and countermeasures associated with Internet-based Capabilities (IbC).  It provides digital identity awareness education for military members, government employees, and contractors.  The course will help the individual understand what their digital identity is and how to protect their critical information on the internet.  It allows the student to better assess the risk when considering using IbC whether at work or home.  The course will provide an overview of identity management, how to protect your digital identity, discuss various ways outsiders obtain your personally identifiable information (PII), and provides recommended good OPSEC practices.  The target audience for the AF IdM Course is not just OPSEC practitioners, but anyone that uses internet-based capabilities.    4.5.5.  OPSEC and Public Release Decisions.  This training addresses the OPSEC issues that should be considered when reviewing information (e.g., print, public speeches, contracts, social media, SharePoint postings) for public release and public access.  The target audience for OPSEC and Public Release Decisions training is OPSEC practitioners, IO Planners, Contracting and PA representatives, Website and SharePoint managers/administrators, and anyone else that reviews or releases information intended for the public.  4.5.6.  OPSEC Contract Requirements.  The Continuous Learning Center (CLC) 107 course “OPSEC Contract Requirements” is located on the Defense Acquisition University website.  This training introduces OPSEC practitioner and contracting representatives to the basic elements of OPSEC, identifies the role of OPSEC within DoD, and recognizes the OPSEC responsibilities of program managers and Contracting representatives for establishing contracting services.  CLC 107, OPSEC Contract Requirements is mandatory for OPSEC practitioners and contracting representatives and is to be completed within 90 days of appointment to the duty position.  (T-0).  4.5.7.  Intelligence Oversight.  Intelligence oversight training is required for OPSEC PMs, Planners, AF OST members, AF OPSEC Instructors.  Training materials for Intelligence oversight are available from the MAJCOM Intelligence Oversight Manager for distribution to the field.  Additional, information regarding intelligence oversight training is available within AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities.       Table 4.1.  AIR FORCE OPSEC EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS  TRAINING OPSECPM   OPSECCOORD MEMBER  AFOST OPSEC Fundamentals  X  X  X INSTRUCTOR  X AF IO PLANNER OPSEC IVE REPRESENTATPA ADMNI WEBSITE ContractingReps  IG (OPSECRep)  Training Location X X X X  X X  X X X    O X  X  X X  X  X O  O  O  X  X  X O X X X X  X X X X X  X AF OPSEC Course OPSEC and Public Release Decisions AF Identity Mgmt. OPSE 2380 OPSEC Analysis OPSE-2390 OPSEC PM O  O X O CLC-107, OPSEC Contract Requirements  X  X  X Defense OPSEC Planners Course O X  X O X X Intelligence Oversight O = Optional X = RequiredX  O  X O X  ADLS In-residence Hurlburt Field, Florida  ADLS  ADLS  IOSS In-residence  IOSS In- Residence  Defense Acquisition University website     X  X  In-Residence  Provided by per AFI 14-104 X              Chapter 5  OPSEC ASSESSMENTS   5.1.  Annual OPSEC Program Report:  5.1.1.  The annual OPSEC Program Report is a continual process that involves combining data collected from OPSEC program reviews, MOPs, MOEs, exercise after-action reports, lessons learned, Unit Effectiveness Inspections, and annually conducted external and internal assessments.  The report serves to characterize the current level of effort and posture of OPSEC within the AF.  The annual OPSEC Program Report also seeks to identify best practices, gaps, and issues so the AF may focus effort to remedy gaps, issues, and help inform a way ahead on AF OPSEC policy, guidance, and TTPs.  This has been assigned Report Control Symbol (RCS) DD-INTEL(A) 2228.  By 1 July of each calendar year, the AF OPSEC PM provides the MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs with the guidelines for the Annual OPSEC Program report.    5.1.2.  The MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs are responsible for tasking their subordinate organizations with providing information that allows the MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs to compile and provide a command view of their OPSEC program via the OPSEC program report.  5.1.3.  The MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA director or higher-level authority responsible for the Command’s OPSEC program signs that organization’s Annual OPSEC Program Report and forwards it to the AF OPSEC PM.  (T-1).  5.1.4.  The commander/director or designated representative for organizations below the MAJCOM and DRU signs that organization’s Annual OPSEC Program Report and forwards it to their HHQ OPSEC PM.  (T-2).  5.2.  Assessments:  5.2.1.  OPSEC assessments are performed to achieve two specific purposes: to ensure required policies and procedures are in place to protect critical information and indicators and to gauge the overall effectiveness of countermeasures.  5.2.2.  The assessment of an OPSEC program identifies the effectiveness through the evaluation of established MOPs and MOEs within plans and programs.  MOPs indicate whether a particular measure was performed and MOEs measure the ability of the implemented OPSEC measures to protect mission/program capabilities and actions to achieve the commander’s/director’s objectives.  5.2.3.  The AF provides several tools to assist OPSEC PMs and Coordinators to obtain information and data to perform OPSEC assessments.  These tools assist in assessing the level of exposure of critical information and indicators to adversary observation, surveillance, and intelligence sensors.  OPSEC PMs and Coordinators use assessment results within the risk management process to develop or adjust countermeasures that can mitigate or negate risk to operations.  5.2.4.  Organizations may use the OPSEC Self-Assessment Communicator (SAC) in MICT in maintaining an OPSEC program and conducting internal OPSEC assessments.  The SACs are divided into functional levels (e.g., wing/wing-equivalents and below wing-level) and provide the basics for maintaining your OPSEC program.  5.2.5.  At least annually, organizations that maintain web and SharePoint sites that are external-facing will conduct content vulnerability analysis of the information on these entities to ensure critical information is not available for exploitation by potential adversaries.  (T-0).  5.2.5.1.  Owners of the web or SharePoint sites should conduct the annual assessments.  They have the best understanding of the scope, intent, and focus of the site and with the assistance from an OPSEC Practitioner and a CIIL can determine if critical information and indicators are present on the site.    5.2.5.2.  Web and SharePoint sites that require a DoD Common Access Card are exempt from this annual requirement.  (T-1).   5.2.6.  MAJCOM, HAF DRU, and FOA OPSEC PMs are the focal point for requesting and scheduling all external assessments and setting all priorities between command organizations.  Request for external assessments through the AF, MAJCOM, HAF DRU, or FOA OPSEC PM.  (T-1).  5.3.  Management Internal Control Tool (MICT):   5.3.1.  MICT is the AF program of record to communicate a unit’s current status of self-assessment communicators (SAC), HAF, SAC Fragmentary Order, and Special Interest Item compliance.  MICT allows commanders, unit MICT owners and functional at all levels to monitor the status of unit compliance with inspected areas and items.  Additionally, MICT assists IGs by informing the Risk Based Sampling Strategy and formulating specific inspection methodology and IG team composition for the Commanders Inspection Program and Unit Effectiveness Inspection.  5.3.2.  A SAC is a two-way communication tool designed to improve compliance with published guidance and communicate risk and program health up and down the chain of command in near real-time.  The HAF OPSEC SACs are developed and managed by the AF OPSEC PM.    5.3.3.  AF OPSEC has four SACs available on MICT:  5.3.3.1.  Wing, Center, Laboratory SAC pertain to wings, centers, and laboratories.  5.3.3.2.  MAJCOM/AF DRU/AF FOA SAC pertain to MAJCOM, AF DRU, and AF FOA organizations.  5.3.3.3.  AFFOR/AOC SAC pertain to AFFOR and AOC organizations.  5.3.3.4.  OPSEC Coordinators pertain to OPSEC Coordinators at any AF level.  5.4.  OPSEC Internal Assessment:   5.4.1.  An OPSEC internal assessment is an overall evaluation of the organization’s OPSEC posture.  Use the organization’s internal assets to conduct internal assessments.  The purpose of an internal assessment is to evaluate an organization’s activities and supporting functions to determine if sufficient countermeasures are in place to protect against the loss of critical information and indicators.    5.4.2.  Internal assessments may be conducted when there is a need for an evaluation based on the sensitivity of the operation or program, or when there is evidence that an adversary is attempting to gain critical information and indicators.  5.4.3.  Conduct an internal assessment prior to the development of an OPSEC program or OPSEC plan.  The internal assessment can establish an OPSEC profile by revealing indicators that present vulnerabilities for an adversary to exploit.  This allows the program to be developed with fact-based knowledge of threats and vulnerabilities that must be addressed.  5.4.4.  Each OPSEC PM will conduct OPSEC internal assessments annually to determine the effectiveness of their OPSEC program, and as a minimum, assess the status of the following: (T-0).  5.4.4.1.  Personnel’s knowledge of critical information and indicators and publication of the CIIL.  5.4.4.2.  Personnel’s knowledge of the collection threat to the organization and the countermeasures in place to protect against the collection.    5.4.4.3.  The effectiveness of current OPSEC countermeasures to protect identified critical information and indicators.  5.4.4.4.  Status of OPSEC training within the organization.  5.4.5.  Organizations may utilize assessments tools such as the MICT, and the OPSEC Module in the EPRM system to conduct annual OPSEC internal assessments.  5.4.6.  Annually MAJCOM, HAF DRU, and FOA OPSEC PMs will conduct a physical or virtual OPSEC assessment of subordinate units using established AF guidance to determine if the unit being assessed are implementing HHQ-directed and their own OPSEC policies and procedures.  (T-2).  5.4.7.  MAJCOM, HAF DRU, and FOA OPSEC PMs will identify and prioritize OPSEC assessment requirements and outline procedures for requesting OEA and program management assessments support from the AF OST or CDA.  (T-1).     5.5.  OPSEC External Assessment (OEA):  5.5.1.  An OEA is the application of the OPSEC methodology by a team of external subject matter experts to conduct a detailed analysis of AF activities associated with a specific AF Core Function, by employing the known collection capabilities of potential adversaries.  This third-party evaluation of the effectiveness of AF OPSEC as it relates to AF weapon systems provides AF leadership in-depth analysis and feedback on the countermeasures in place to mitigate adversarial exportation of AF activities.  An AF OEA is not a programmatic assessment.  5.5.2.  The OEA requires a team of experts to look at an activity from an adversary’s perspective to determine if critical information and indicators are being disclosed through normal operations and functions, to identify vulnerabilities, and propose countermeasures to mitigate them.  5.5.3.  In order to maintain team and mission integrity, it is imperative that OEA team members if possible be billeted at the same lodging facility.  The OEA Mission Director, while maintaining requirements established in the Joint Travel Regulations is responsible for determining appropriate lodging for OEA team members. 5.5.4.  The primary focus is to identify critical information, indicators and vulnerabilities associated with the operations of the assessed AF capability, pinpoint weaknesses an adversary could utilize to degrade AF missions, and provide AF Senior Leadership information about when, where and how a potential adversary could interpret AF intentions.   5.5.5.  Additionally, an OEA determines if current OPSEC countermeasures are effectively mitigating identified threats and vulnerabilities.  OEA, recommendations for new or additional countermeasures against existing or future capabilities are identified to better protect assets and increase the operational advantage over adversaries and competitors.  5.5.6.  The AF OST conducts OEAs on Air Force core functions, operations, and weapon systems as directed by the AF OPSEC PM.  The AF OST needs minimal  support from a commander’s enterprise  (e.g., facility to work  from, letter of authorization  to conduct  observations  on the installation).  5.5.7.  The AF OST coordinates their presence at locations with MAJCOM  IG Gatekeepers  and OPSEC PMs to ensure minimal  i m p a c t  by the team within  a commander's  enterprise.  5.5.8.  The AF OST annually nominates AF OEA targets, based on adversary threat information, to the AF OPSEC PM, in order to gain approval of the coming FY OEA focus area(s).  OEAs are comprehensive and multi-site assessments with the ultimate goal to collect and exploit AF critical information and indicators.    5.5.9.  Results from AF OEAs are provided in an annual AF OST report to the AF OPSEC PM.  The AF OPSEC PM will share AF OEA results with the program manager of the assessed AF capability and the assessed organizations.  Additionally, sanitized results will be include in the Annual AF OPSEC Program Report.   5.5.10.  MAJCOMs, DRUs, and AF FOAs may request an OEA as needed, but the OEAs must be focused on a specific operation, mission, activity, or capability to allow the AF OST to provide the best results to the organizations.  5.5.11.  The AF OST forwards results from the MAJCOM, DRU, and AF FOA OEA to the requestor of the assessment.  MAJCOM, DRU, and AF FOA OPSEC PMs will provide an analysis of the results from the OEA in their Annual OPSEC Program Report.  5.6.  OPSEC Program Management Assessment (PMA):  5.6.1.  An OPSEC PMA provides an in-depth look at a unit’s OPSEC program implementation and effectiveness.  OPSEC PMAs differ from OEAs in that they are focused on a specific organization, activity, or event and not necessarily part of the annual yearlong OEA process.  OPSEC PMAs are conducted by a team of subject matter experts to provide a detailed analysis of an OPSEC program’s effectiveness by completing a thorough analysis of how the program is implemented, executed, supported, and managed.  The AF OST conducts OPSEC PMAs.  5.6.2.  During an OPSEC PMA, the assessment team will work with the assessed organization to identify methods and opportunities to develop and implement more effective OPSEC programs that enable improved protection of critical information and operational indicators.  5.6.3.  OPSEC PMAs require considerably more time and effort from the assessed organization’s leadership, program managers and general work force than required for an OEA.  To be successful, the AF OST’s activities during an OPSEC PMA require dedicated time and resources of the assessed organization in order to thoroughly understand and assess the OPSEC program.  5.6.4.  OPSEC PMAs can be initiated by the assessed organization and/or the organization’s higher headquarters.  MAJCOMs, DRUs, and AF FOAs may request an OPSEC PMA as needed, but the PMA must be focused on a specific operation, mission, activity, or capability to allow the AF OST to provide the best results to the organizations.  It is the requesting organizations, not the AF OST’s responsibility to ensure the MAJCOM, and Wing Gatekeepers are aware of the AF OST presences on the installation.  5.6.5.  The requesting organization is responsible for funding OPSEC PMAs, unless preapproved by the Director AF OST.  5.6.6.  Results from OPSEC PMAs are included in the yearly summary reports created by the AF OST and provided to the AF OPSEC PM to outline trends and overall posture results of the AF OPSEC program.  These results will be included in the AF’s Annual OPSEC Program Report.  5.7.  Electronic Systems Security Assessment (ESSA):  5.7.1.  AF conducted ESSA is the continuous monitoring of AF owned, operated, and/or leased communication systems to support OPSEC protection measures.  ESSAs cover a range of devices and communication systems to include radio frequencies, wired and wireless devices,  websites, and computer systems and networks.  Awareness of active ESSA monitoring of government telecommunication systems is an essential element of deterrence of such disclosures.    5.7.2.  ESSA monitoring can be tasked and focused to defend specific information via Information Defense Priorities.  Information Defense Priorities can be based on AF organizations, mission sets, capabilities, weapon systems, platforms, or any other significant categorization of AF owned information.  5.7.3.  The 68th Network Warfare Squadron and its associated units conduct ESSA for the AF.  Monitoring of AF communication systems can only be conducted within certain legal parameters and may only be performed by authorized personnel.  5.7.4.  Guidance regarding ESSA operations is provided in AFI 10-712, Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Operations and Notice and Consent Program for further guidance.    5.7.5.  ESSA assists commanders in evaluating their organization's OPSEC posture by determining the amount and type of information available to adversary collection entities.    5.7.6.  AF, MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA OPSEC PMs and members of the AF OST request Focused Look Assessment through the 624th Operations Center.  A Focused Look Assessment can cover multiple organizations, installations, or locations.  5.7.7.  Organizations request CDA WS support through their HHQ OPSEC PM to their respective MAJCOM, DRU, or AF FOA OPSEC PM.  MAJCOM, DRU, AF FOA OPSEC PMs submit CDA WS request to 24 AF/A3X, IAW AFI 10-712 and this instruction.  (T-1).   5.8.  Staff Assistance Visit (SAV).  HHQ OPSEC PMs, or other organization SMEs conduct SAVs as needed IAW AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, and this instruction to assist organizations in developing an OPSEC program or OPSEC Plans, repairing dormant, non-compliant, deficient programs, or for any other reason deemed necessary by the commander/director or their appointed representative.  Organizations request such assistance through their respective chain-of-command and the IG Gatekeeper process.  SAVs check for program compliance (e.g., Special Interest Items, AFIs, MAJCOM policies), identify and resolve shortfalls, and provide guidance to OPSEC PMs and Coordinators as required.  5.9.  AF OPSEC Support Team:  5.9.1.  The AF OST is the “operational arm” of AF OPSEC Program.  The AF OST conducts OPSEC assessments and provides “reach back” support to AF units worldwide to include support to OPSEC program development, planning efforts, and development and availability of OPSEC awareness materials.  5.9.1.1.  Program Development: Provides support at the strategic through tactical level in the development of an OPSEC program.  Such as support to build and maintain an OPSEC program, development of an OPSEC Implementation Plan, and/or provide knowledge and experience (helpdesk).   5.9.1.2.  Planning: Provides support at the strategic through tactical level through the development and maintenance of operational plans.  This support may include support in areas such as build and maintain OPSEC operational planning, provide framework of a plan annex, development of countermeasures/mitigation methods, provide knowledge and experience (helpdesk), and assist in the development of OPSEC scenarios emulating real world operations, exercises, and activities.  5.9.1.3.  Awareness Training: Provides for the development and continued education and training of the AF population.  This support may include develop and maintain OPSEC education and training, develop and provide SMEs in the development of awareness education training materials.  The AF OST may also provide as requested an OPSEC booth for respective conferences and other events to raise OPSEC awareness.  5.9.1.4.  Internal and External Assessments: Provide support at the operational and tactical level through the assessment of AF OPSEC Programs.  This support may include areas such as advice on tools and capabilities, recommend corrective actions, develop capability to conduct program assessments, orchestrate and conduct AF OEAs, AF OPSEC PMAs, analyze and evaluate results of assessments, and integrate lessons learned.  5.9.2.  EPRM’s OPSEC Module is a web-based tool developed to provide a standardized process to assist the OPSEC community with assessing and quantifying risk to critical information allowing decision makers to make informed decisions on what countermeasures to implement to reduce the organization’s overall risk and vulnerabilities.  EPRM provides posture, vulnerabilities and risk level status, which can provide assistance in developing plans and management reports.  It provides a platform for planners to test remediation options and scenarios and provides an expert knowledge base to assist in threat assessments.  OPSEC practitioners can request an EPRM account by going to the EPRM site on SIPRNet.  5.10.  SharePoint Sites  5.10.1.  The AF OPSEC SharePoint site located on NIPRNet is the central location for unclassified collaboration of AF OPSEC.  Information e.g., shared awareness briefings and training material, potential OPSEC vulnerabilities regarding current communication technology, and lessons learned are available on the AF OPSEC SharePoint.  OPSEC practitioners may request access to the AF OPSEC SharePoint by going to the SharePoint site and requesting access (https://cs.eis.af.mil/sites/10054/default.aspx).  5.10.2.  AF OPSEC Program Management SharePoint site located on SIPRNet, is the central storage and collaboration space for AF OPSEC publications, documents, information, AF OPSEC Course schedule and ideas at the classified level.  AF OPSEC practitioners may request access to the AF OPSEC Program Management SharePoint through their MAJCOM, HAF DRU/FOA OPSEC PM.     5.11.  Joint and Interagency OPSEC Support:  5.11.1.  AF personnel are welcome and encouraged to receive training from the Joint OPSEC Support Element (JOSE) and IOSS.  The courses offered by the JOSE and IOSS provide a perspective of OPSEC from the joint and federal government level while AF OPSEC training is oriented specifically to an AF audience.  Address questions regarding JOSE and IOSS support to the MAJCOM, DRU, or FOA HHQ OPSEC PM.  5.11.2.  JOSE.  The JOSE as part of the Joint Information Operations Warfare Center (JIOWC) serves as the OPSEC Joint Center of Excellence and provides direct support to Combatant Commands and Joint Force Commanders through the integration of OPSEC into operations, plans, and exercises and by providing staff-level program development and training and OPSEC vulnerability assessments when directed.  5.11.3.  IOSS.  The IOSS supports the National OPSEC Program by providing tailored training, assisting in program development, producing multimedia products and presenting conferences for the defense, security, intelligence, research and development, acquisition and public safety communities.  Its mission is to help government organizations develop their own, self-sufficient OPSEC programs in order to protect United States programs and activities.  IOSS offers a multitude of OPSEC training aids available to all OPSEC professionals.     Chapter 6  OPSEC REQUIREMENTS WITHIN CONTRACTS  6.1.  General:  6.1.1.  Contractors for defense systems acquisition programs as well as other types of AF contracts will practice OPSEC to protect critical information and indicators as specified in government contracts and subcontracts.  6.1.2.  Each organization that request contract support is responsible for determining and communicating which OPSEC measures are essential to protect critical information and indicators for each of their specific contracts.  Organizations must identify OPSEC measures in their requirements documents and ensure they are identified in resulting solicitations and contracts.  See paragraphs 6.2.4.2 and 6.2.5.2 of this instruction for additional guidance.  (T-0).  6.1.3.  Each organization requesting contract support is responsible for ensuring the appropriate OPSEC measures and costs associated with the implementation of these measures are billed and tracked as a separate line item in all contracts.  6.1.4.  OPSEC PMs, Coordinators, or contracting representatives, depending on the organizations conduct reviews of contracting documents for OPSEC concerns.  If an OPSEC Coordinator or Contracting representative is conducting the review, the HHQ OPSEC PM provides at a minimum technical guidance and an approved CIIL to assist in the analysis of information within the contract documents.  6.1.5.  OPSEC Coordinators advise the OPSEC PM as to the results of the review of the contract documents.  The OPSEC PM and not the OPSEC Coordinator is responsible for inherently government functions within the OPSEC program.  (T-0).  6.2.  Guidance and procedures: (T-0).  6.2.1.  Organizations will consider OPSEC for all contractual requirements.  6.2.2.  Organizations must first determine whether there is any form of critical information or activities within each of their contracts.  It is the responsibility of each organization to inform the Contracting representative if there are no OPSEC requirements for the contract.  6.2.3.  Organizations will develop an OPSEC Plan to protect critical information and indicators associated with each contract from cradle to grave.  (See Paragraph 3.2 of this instruction for guidance on developing an OPSEC Plan (aka OPSEC Implementation Plan).  6.2.4.  The organization will specify OPSEC requirements for unclassified and classified contracts in the Statement of Work (SOW), Performance Work Statement (PWS), and/or Statement of Objectives (SOO).     6.2.4.1.  Provide sufficient detail to ensure complete contractor understanding of the requirements (e.g., what do you want the contractor to do, how do you want the contractor to comply, when do you want the contractor to comply, who is going to provide training).  6.2.4.2.  In order to reduce vulnerabilities, critical information and indicators will not be included in unclassified contract documents.  6.2.4.3.  Provide the contractor a copy of the OPSEC Plan associated with the contract.  6.2.5.  Commanders/directors must ensure:  (T-1).  6.2.5.1.  OPSEC PM and Coordinators work with the Contracting representative when writing contract documents such as requests for proposal, SOW, PWS, and SOOs.    6.2.5.2.  Contracting representatives have access to all unit CIILs and compare their unclassified documents to those CIILs to ensure critical information and indicators are not included in the contracting documents.  6.2.5.3.  OPSEC PMs or Coordinators review contractual documents prior to release.      MARK C. NOWLAND Lieutenant General, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations      Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  References  National Security Decision Directive 298 (NSDD 298), National Operations Security Program, 22 January 1988  DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Identification and Protection Within Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E), 28 May 2015  DoDD 5205.02E, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, 20 June 2012  DoDM 5205.02-M, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program Manual, 3 November 2008  DoDI 8550.01, DoD Internet Services and Internet-Based Capabilities, 11 September 2012  JP 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 15 June 2015  JP 3-13.3, Joint Doctrine for Operations Security, 6 January 2016  AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, 4 August 2014  AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 27 March 2015  AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary (BAS&E) Site Planning, 27 August 2015  AFI 10-712, Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Operations and Notice and Consent Program, 17 December 2015  AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, 15 September 2011  AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 26 September 2016  AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015  AFI 36-2648, Community College of the Air Force (CCAF), 29 October 2013  AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013  AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012  AFI 65-601V2, Budget Management for Operations, 18 May 2012  AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 18 December 2013  AFI 90-201, Air Force Inspection System, 11 February 2016  AFMAN 17-1201, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 19 May 2016  AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008  AFTTP 3.1.  IO/NKO, Information Operations/Non-Kinetic Operations, 15 March 2016   Prescribed and Adopted Forms   Adopted Forms:   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication   DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification   Abbreviations and Acronyms  AAR — After-Action Report  ACC – Air Combat Command  ADLS — Advanced Distributed Learning Service  AFNET — Air Force Network  AFOSI — Air Force Office of Special Investigations  AFPD — Air Force Policy Directive  AFTTP — Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures  ANG — Air National Guard  AOC — Air and Space Operations Center  AOR — Area of Responsibility  C2 –– Command and Control  CC — Commander  CCAF — Community College of the Air Force  CCD — Camouflage, Concealment, and Deception  CDA WS — Cyberspace Defense Analysis Weapon System  CIIL — Critical Information and Indicators List   CONPLAN — Contingency Plan  COA — Course of Action  CPI — Critical Program Information  DAFC — Department of the Air Force Civilian  DIRLAUTH — Direct Liaison Authorized  DoD — Department of Defense  DoDD — Department of Defense Directive  DOPC — Defense OPSEC Planners Course  DRU — Direct Reporting Unit  EPRM — Enterprise Protection Risk Management  ESSA — Electronic System Security Assessment  FOA — Field Operating Agency  FTU — Field Training Unit  HAF — Headquarters Air Force  HHQ — Higher Headquarters  HUMINT — Human Intelligence  HVA — HUMINT Vulnerability Assessments  IbC — Internet-based Capabilities  IG — Inspector General  IO — Information Operations  IOSS — Interagency OPSEC Support Staff   IQT — Initial Qualification Training  IRC — Information Related Capability  JOSE — Joint OPSEC Support Element  JWICS — Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System  L2 — Lessons Learned  MAF — Mobility Air Forces  MAJCOM — Major Command  MICT — Management Internal Control Toolset  MILDEC — Military Deception  MOE — Measures of Effectiveness  MOP — Measures of Performance  MOU — Memorandum of Understanding  MSEL — Master Scenario Events Listing  NKO –– Non-kinetic Operations  OEA — OPSEC External Assessment  O&M –– Operations & Maintenance  OWG — OPSEC Working Group  OPLAN — Operation Plan  OPORD — Operation Order  OPR — Office of Primary Responsibility  OPSEC — Operations Security  OST — OPSEC Support Team  PA — Public Affairs   PE –– Program Element  PEM –– Program Element Manager  PII — Personally Identifiable Information  PM — Program Manager  POM –– Program Objectives Memorandum  PWS — Performance Work Statement  MISO — Military Information Support Operations  RDT&E — Research, Development, Test and Evaluation  SAC — Self-Assessment Communicator  SAV — Staff Assistance Visit  SCI — Sensitive Compartmented Information  SEI — Special Experience Identifier  SIPRNet — Secret Internet Protocol Router Network  SM — Signature Management  SME — Subject Matter Expert  SOP — Standard Operations Procedures  SOW — Statement of Work  T-0 — Tier 0 Waiver Authority — Outside of the AF  T-1 — Tier 1 Waiver Authority — MAJCOM CC with HAF/A3T Concurrence   T-2 — Tier 2 Waiver Authority — MAJCOM CC   T-3 — Tier 3 Waiver Authority — Wing/DRU/FOA CC  TFAT — Total Force Awareness Training  TIP — Tactics Improvement Proposal   TTP — Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures  UEI — Unit Effectiveness Inspection  WIT — Wing Inspection Team   Terms  Acceptable Level of Risk — An authority's determination of the level of potential harm to an operation, program, or activity due to the loss of information that the authority is willing to accept.    Acquisition Program — A directed, funded effort that is designed to provide a new, improved, or continuing material, weapons system, information system, or service capability in response to a validated operational need.  Activity — A function, mission, action, or collection of actions.  Adversary — An individual, group, organization or government that must be denied critical information and indicators.  Synonymous with competitor/enemy.  Association — The characteristic of an indicator that makes it identifiable or causes it to stand out.  Key signature properties are uniqueness and stability.  Conduit — A pathway over which data or information is collected, passed, analyzed and delivered to decision makers.  Contrast — The characteristic of an indicator that refers to differences observed between an activity’s standard profile and it’s most recent or current actions.  Counterintelligence — Information gathered and activities conducted to identify, deceive, exploit, disrupt, or protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons or their agents, or international terrorist organizations or activities.  (JP 1-02)  Critical Information — Specific facts about friendly intentions, capabilities, or activities needed by adversaries to plan and act effectively against friendly mission accomplishment.  Critical Information and Indicators List — A combination of mission-specific facts, evidence, and detectable actions from which an adversary or potential adversary could accurately deduce friendly activity, capability, or intent to a level of unacceptable risk to mission accomplishment.  The key output of the “Identify Critical Information” step in the OPSEC process.    Critical Program Information — Elements or components of a research, development and acquisition (RDA) program that, if compromised, could cause significant degradation in mission effectiveness; shorten the expected combat-effective life of the system; reduce technological advantage; significantly alter program direction; or enable an adversary to defeat, counter, copy, or reverse engineer the technology or capability.  Includes information about applications, capabilities, processes, and end-items; information about elements or components critical to a military system or network mission effectiveness; and technology that would reduce the U.S technological advantage if it came under foreign control.   Essential Secrecy — The condition achieved from the denial of critical information and indicators to adversaries through the combined efforts of traditional security programs and the operations security process.  Essential Secret — Specific aspects of planned friendly operations that, if compromised, would lead to adversary identification of exploitable conditions and potential failure to meet the commander’s objectives and/or desired end state.  Exposure — The characteristic of an indicator that refers to when and for how long an indicator is observed.  External-facing — Available via the Internet to authorized users from any location.  A DoD Internet service being external-facing has no bearing on whether it is public or private, i.e., both public and private DoD Internet services may be external-facing.  (DoDI 8550.01)  Focused Look Assessment — Includes any number of Information Defense Priorities specific to a single Air Force core function, organization, mission set, capability, or weapon system.  A Focused Look Assessment can cover multiple organizations, installations, or locations.  Human Intelligence (HUMINT) — A category of intelligence derived from information collected and provided by human sources.  Indicator — Detectable actions and information that can be interpreted and pieced together to reach conclusions or estimates concerning friendly intentions, capabilities, or activities.  Information Operations (IO) — The integrated employment, during military operations, of information-related capabilities in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt, corrupt, or usurp the decision-making of adversaries and potential adversaries while protecting our own.  JP 1-02.  (Actions taken to affect adversary information and information systems while defending one's own information and information systems.)  Information Related Capability (IRC) — A tool, technique, or activity employed within a dimension of the information environment that can be used to create effects and operationally desirable conditions.  JP 1-02.  (Capabilities, techniques, and activities employed within a dimension of the information environment that can be used to achieve a specific end(s).  Internal-facing — Existing on DoD information systems for an internal DoD or United States Government, non-public audience.  Not available to or from the general public Internet.  (DoDI 8550.01)  Measures of Effectiveness (MOE) — A criterion used to assess changes in system behavior, capability, or operational environment that is tied to measuring the attainment of an end state, achievement of an objective, or creation of an effect (AFD Annex 3-0)   Measures of Performance (MOP) — A criterion used to assess friendly actions that are tied to measuring task accomplishment (AFD Annex 3-0)   Node — An element of a conduit that represents a person, place, or physical thing through which information passes.  Nodes may or may not inject bias during their handling and retransmission of data or information.  Observable — Activities apparent to observers and/or collectors that might be analyzed and used by the decision maker.  The combination of an indicator and an opposing force conduit or open source reporting.  Operations Security (OPSEC) — An information related capability that preserves friendly essential secrecy by identifying, controlling, and protecting critical information and indicators that would allow adversaries or potential adversaries to identify and exploit friendly vulnerabilities leading to increased risk and potential mission failure.    OPSEC Compromise — The disclosure of critical information which has been identified by the information owner (commander/director) and any higher headquarters that jeopardizes the unit’s ability to execute its mission or to adequately protect its personnel and/or equipment.  Critical information that has been compromised and is available in open sources and the public domain should not be highlighted or referenced publicly outside of intra-governmental or authorized official communications because these actions provide further unnecessary exposure of the compromised information.  OPSEC Coordinator — An individual trained in OPSEC located at a subordinate level, who works in coordination with the OPSEC program manager or primary representative.  DoDD 5205.02E  OPSEC Countermeasure — Planned action to affect collection, analysis, delivery, or interpretation of information.  OPSEC countermeasures include all activities that affect content and flow of critical information and indicators from collection to the decision maker.  Countermeasures are generally offensive in nature and may require additional approval authorities and review criteria associated with choice of means employed.    OPSEC Event — A collection of operationally related OPSEC measures and countermeasures executed to protect a specific friendly activity.    OPSEC External Assessment (OEA) — The application of the OPSEC methodology by a team of subject matter experts to conduct a detailed analysis of all activities associated with a specific organization, operation, activity, exercise, or support function by employing the known collection capabilities of potential adversaries.  OPSEC Indicator — Friendly detectable actions and open-source information that can be interpreted or pieced together by an adversary to derive critical information.  OPSEC Internal Assessment — An evaluative process, conducted of an organization’s, operations, activities, exercises, or supporting functions to determine if sufficient countermeasures are in place to protect against the loss of critical information and indicators.  An  OPSEC Internal Assessment may include self-generated program reviews, Inspector General inspections, or higher headquarters reviews that specifically address OPSEC.  OPSEC Means — Methods, resources, or techniques that can be used to protect critical information and indicators.  OPSEC Measure — Planned action to conceal critical information and indicators from disclosure, observation or detection.    OPSEC Program Manager — A full-time appointee or primary representative assigned to develop and manage an OPSEC program.  DoDD 5205.02E.  (AF Definition - An appointee or primary representative assigned to develop and manage an OPSEC program.)  OPSEC Program Management Assessment – An in-depth evaluation of the implementation and effectiveness of an organizations OPSEC program.  OPSEC PMAs are conducted by a team of subject matter experts to provide a detailed analysis of an OPSEC program’s effectiveness by completing a thorough analysis of how the program is implemented, executed, supported, and managed.  OPSEC Plan — The outcome of the OPSEC process that completes APEX Tab C-3-C and directs the implementation of appropriate measures and countermeasures to protect critical information and indicators.  OPSEC Planner — A functional expert trained and qualified to plan and execute OPSEC.  DoDD 5205.02E  OPSEC Working Group — Designated body representing a broad range of line and staff activities within an organization that provides advice and support to leadership and all elements of the organization.  This can be an OPSEC, SM, threat, or public affairs working group that addresses OPSEC concerns).  OPSEC practitioners — Individuals charged with developing, implementing, planning, and assessing OPSEC.  Includes individuals such as OPSEC Program Managers, Coordinators, OPSEC Support Teams, OPSEC Instructors, and Planners.  OPSEC Protective Measure — Methods and means to gain and maintain essential secrecy about critical information and indicators.  Includes OPSEC countermeasures and measures.  OPSEC Support Capabilities — The range of capabilities used by the components to provide the required OT&E to sustain their OPSEC efforts.  OPSEC Vulnerability — A condition in which friendly actions provide OPSEC indicators that may be obtained and accurately evaluated by an adversary in time to prove a basis for effective adversary decision making.   Personally Identifiable Information (PII) — A loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, unauthorized access, or any similar term referring to situations where persons other than authorized users and for an other than authorized purpose have access or potential access to PII, whether physical or electronic.  Profile — The characteristic of an indicator that refers to the sum of unique signatures and associations generated by a functional activity.    Profiling process — Defining the local operating environment and capture process points that present key signatures and profiles with critical information value.  This process is the deliberate effort to identify functional areas and the observables they produce to contribute to the overall signature of day-to-day activities and operational trends.  Reachback Support — The process of obtaining products, services, and applications, or forces, or equipment, or material from organizations that are not forward deployed.  (JP 3-30)  Relevant Support Activities — Can include, but are inclusive to, the following: acquisitions; treaty verification; nonproliferation protocols; international agreements; force protection operations; special access programs; and activities that prepare, sustain, or employ Military Services over the range of military operations   Risk — A measure of the potential degree to which protected information is subject to loss through adversary exploitation.  Risk Analysis — A method by which individual vulnerabilities are compared to perceived or actual security threat scenarios in order to determine the likelihood of compromise of critical information.  Risk Assessment — A process of evaluating the risks to information based on susceptibility to intelligence collection and the anticipated severity of loss.  Sensor — The collection element of the conduit or information pathway which identifies, registers, and subsequently transmits data.  Signature — Observable activities and operational trends that reveal critical information to adversary intelligence collection.  Signature Management (SM) — The active defense or exploitation of operational profiles resident at a given military installation.  Defense of operational profiles is accomplished by implementing protective SM measures to deny adversary collection of critical information and indicators.  Self-Assessment Communicator — A two-way communication tool designed to improve compliance with published guidance and communicate risk and program health up and down the chain of command in near real-time.   Threat — The capability of an adversary coupled with his intentions to undertake any actions detrimental to the success of program activities or operations.  Threat Assessment — An evaluation of the intelligence collection threat to a program activity, system, or operation.  Tier Waiver Authorities — Tier Waiver Authority is based on consequence of non-compliance and approval authority (AFI 33-360, Table 1.1).   T-0 Waiver Authority is external to the AF (e.g., Executive Order, DoD, Joint Staff, Combatant Commands). T-1 Waiver Authority is MAJCOM/CC (delegable no lower than the MAJCOM Director), with the concurrence of the publication’s Approving Official (AF/A3T).   T-2 Waiver Authority is MAJCOM/CC (delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director).   T-3 Waiver Authority is Wing/CC  Vulnerability — An exploitable condition in which the adversary has sufficient knowledge, time, and available resources to thwart friendly mission accomplishment or substantially increase operational risk.  Vulnerability Analysis — A process that examines a friendly operation or activity from the point of view of an adversary, seeking ways in which the adversary might determine critical information in time to disrupt or defeat the operation or activity.  DoDM 5205.02M  Vulnerability Assessment — A process that examines a friendly operation or activity from the point of view of an adversary, seeking ways in which the adversary might determine critical information in time to disrupt or defeat the operation or activity.  Website — A set of interconnected pages, services, and associated Internet media available at a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and prepared and maintained as a collection of information and services by a person, group, or organization.      BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-701 8 JUNE 2011 Operations OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A3Z-CI, Information Operations Division  Supersedes: AFI10-701, 18 October 2007 Certified by: AF/A3Z  (Maj Gen Bolton) Pages: 40   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  10-7,  Air  Force  Information Operations.  The reporting requirements in  this  publication have been assigned Report Control Symbol  (RCS)  DD-INTEL(A)2228  in  accordance  with  DoDD  5205.02,  DoD  Operations Security  (OPSEC)  Program.    It  applies  to  all  Major  Commands  (MAJCOM),  Field  Operating Agencies (FOA), Direct Reporting Units (DRU), Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard  (ANG)  organizations.    This  publication  provides  guidance  for  all  Air  Force  personnel (military  and  civilian)  and  supporting  contractors  in  implementing,  maintaining  and  executing OPSEC programs.  It describes the OPSEC process and discusses integration of OPSEC into Air Force plans, operations and support activities.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.    The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document has been substantially  revised and must be  completely reviewed.   This  updated instruction adds responsibilities for MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs (paragraph 1.4.8), Air Combat Command  (ACC)  (paragraph  1.4.8),  commanders  (paragraph  1.4.15),  requirement  to  budget,   2  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 acquire and distribute OPSEC awareness and education materials (1.4.15.8.2), OPSEC Program Managers (PM), Signature Management Officers, Coordinators and Planners (paragraph 1.4.16) and  all  Air  Force  personnel  (paragraph  1.4.17).    Chapter  2  has  been  renamed  Signature Management  and  OPSEC  Process  has  been  moved  to  Chapter  4.    OPSEC  measures  have  been deleted  from  chapter  4  and  are  now  reflected  to  read  countermeasures  (paragraph  4.6). Acquisition  planning  has  been  removed  from  chapter  3,  OPSEC  Planning  and  placed  within chapter 8, OPSEC Contract Requirements.  OPSEC Awareness Education and Training has been moved  to  chapter  5,  OPSEC  Education  and  Training,  and  includes  requirement  to  provide awareness information to AF family members.  OPSEC assessments has been moved to chapter 6  and  titled  Assessments.    Additions  to  chapter  6  include  web  site  link  to  the  OPSEC  Core Capabilities Checklists (paragraph 6.1.5), requirements regarding the assessment of information on  AF  public  and  private  web  sites  (paragraph  6.5),  and  requirement  to  utilize  the  operations security collaborations architecture (OSCAR) tool for annual assessments (paragraph 6.6.4).  Air Force OPSEC annual awards is located in chapter 7 and chapter 8 includes information regarding OPSEC as a requirement within government contracts.  Chapter 1—GENERAL    1.1. Introduction:   ...........................................................................................................  1.2. Operational Context:   ..............................................................................................  Figure  1.1. OPSEC Functional Structure   .................................................................................  1.3. Purpose:   .................................................................................................................  1.4. Roles and Responsibilities:   ....................................................................................  Chapter 2—SIGNATURE MANAGEMENT    2.1. Signature Management.   .........................................................................................  2.2.  Wing or installation commanders will:   ..................................................................  4 4 4 4 5 5 15 15 15 2.3. Signature Management Officer/Signature Management Non-Commissioned Officer will:   .................................................................................................................................  16 2.4. Signature Management Planning and Coordination.   .............................................  2.5. Exploitation Countermeasures (Refer to AFI 10-704, Paragraph 2.   ......................  Chapter 3—OPSEC PLANNING    3.1. General.   ..................................................................................................................  3.2. Operational Planning.   ............................................................................................  3.3. Support Planning.   ...................................................................................................  3.4. Exercise Planning.   .................................................................................................  3.5. Acquisition Planning.   .............................................................................................  Chapter 4—OPSEC PROCESS    4.1. General:   ..................................................................................................................  17 18 19 19 19 19 19 20 21 21 AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 4.2. Identify Critical Information:   .................................................................................  4.3. Analyze Threats:   ....................................................................................................  4.4. Analyze Vulnerabilities:   ........................................................................................  4.5. Assess Risk:   ...........................................................................................................  4.6. Apply Countermeasures:   ........................................................................................  Chapter 5—OPSEC EDUCATION AND TRAINING    5.1. General.   ..................................................................................................................  5.2. All Personnel:   ........................................................................................................  5.3. OPSEC PMs/SMO/SMNCOs/Coordinators, Planners, Inspection Teams:   ...........  5.4. Joint and Interagency OSPEC Support:   .................................................................  Chapter 6—ASSESSMENTS    6.1. General:   ..................................................................................................................  6.2. Annual OPSEC Program Review:   .........................................................................  6.3. Staff Assistance Visit (SAV):   ................................................................................  6.4. Survey:   ...................................................................................................................  6.5.  Web Content Vulnerability Analysis:   ....................................................................  6.6. Support Capabilities:   ..............................................................................................  Table  6.1. OPSEC Assessment Types and Support Capabilities   ............................................  Chapter 7—AIR FORCE OPSEC ANNUAL AWARDS PROGRAM    7.1. General:   ..................................................................................................................  Chapter 8—OPSEC REQUIREMENTS WITHIN CONTRACTS    8.1. General:   ..................................................................................................................  8.2. Guidance and procedures:   ......................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION       3  21 21 21 22 22 23 23 23 24 25 26 26 26 27 27 28 28 30 31 31 32 32 32 34   4  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 Chapter 1 GENERAL 1.1.  Introduction:  OPSEC  is  a  military  capability  within  Information  Operations  (IO).    IO  is the integrated employment of three operational elements: influence operations (IFO), electronic warfare  operations  and  network  warfare  operations.    IO  aims  to  influence,  disrupt,  corrupt,  or usurp adversarial human or automated decision-making while protecting our own.  IFO employs the  military  capabilities  of  military  information  support  operations  (MISO),  OPSEC,  military deception  (MILDEC),  counterintelligence  operations,  public  affairs  (PA)  operations  and counterpropaganda  operations to  affect  behaviors,  protect  operations,  communicate commanders’  intent  and  project  accurate  information  to  achieve  desired  effects  across  the operational  environment.    OPSEC’s  desired  effect  is  to  influence  the  adversary’s  behavior  and actions by protecting friendly operations and activities. 1.2.  Operational Context: 1.2.1.  Operational Focus.  The OPSEC program is an operations function or activity and its goals  are  information  superiority  and  optimal  mission  effectiveness.    The  emphasis  is  on OPERATIONS and the assurance of effective mission accomplishment.  To ensure effective implementation  across  organizational  and  functional  lines  the  organization’s  OPSEC Program Manager (PM), Signature Management Officer (SMO), or coordinator will reside in the operations and/or plans element of an organization or report directly to the commander.  For those organizations with no traditional operations or plans element, the commander must decide  the  most  logical  area  to  place  management  and  coordination  of  the  organization’s OPSEC  program  while focusing on operations and the mission of the organization.   Figure 1.2 illustrates the AF OPSEC functional structure. Figure 1.1.  OPSEC Functional Structure  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   5  1.2.2.  Operational  effectiveness  is  enhanced  when  commanders  and  other  decision-makers apply OPSEC from the earliest stages of planning.  OPSEC involves a series of analyses to examine the planning, preparation, execution and post execution phases of any operation or activity  across  the  entire  spectrum  of  military  action  and  in  any  operational  environment.  OPSEC  analysis    provides  decision-makers  with  a  means  of  weighing  how  much  risk  they are  willing  to  accept  in  particular  operational  circumstances  in  the  same  way  as  operations risk management allows commanders to assess risk in mission planning. 1.2.3.  OPSEC  must  be  closely  integrated  and  synchronized  with  other  IFO  capabilities, security  disciplines,  and  all  aspects  of  protected  operations  (see  references  listed  in Attachment 1). 1.3.  Purpose: 1.3.1.  The  purpose  of  OPSEC  is  to  reduce  the  vulnerability  of  Air  Force  missions  by eliminating  or  reducing  successful  adversary  collection  and  exploitation  of  critical information.  OPSEC applies to all activities that prepare, sustain, or employ forces during all phases of operations. 1.3.2.  OPSEC  Definition.    OPSEC  is  a  process  of  identifying,  analyzing  and  controlling critical information indicating friendly actions associated with military operations and other activities to: 1.3.2.1.  Identify those actions that can be observed by adversary intelligence systems. 1.3.2.2.  Determine  what  specific interpreted to derive critical information in time to be useful to adversaries. indications  could  be  collected,  analyzed,  and 1.3.2.3.  Select and execute measures that eliminate or reduce to an acceptable level the vulnerabilities of friendly actions to adversary exploitation. 1.4.  Roles and Responsibilities: 1.4.1.  Air  Force  organizations  must  develop  and  integrate  OPSEC  into  their  mission planning to ensure critical information and indicators are identified.  At a minimum, the Air Force will integrate  OPSEC  into the following missions:  military strategy, operational  and tactical  planning  and  execution,  military  indoctrination,  support  activities,  contingency, combat and peacetime operations and exercises, communications-computer architectures and processing, critical infrastructure protection, weapons systems, Research, Development, Test and  Evaluation  (RDT&E),  Air  Force  specialized  training,  inspections,  acquisition  and procurement, medical operations and professional military education.  Although the OPSEC program  helps  commanders  make  and  implement  decisions,  the  decisions  are  the commander’s responsibility.  Commanders must understand the risk to the mission and then determine which countermeasures are required. 1.4.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff for  Operations,  Plans  and  Requirements (AF/A3/5).  The  AF/A3/5  is  the  OPR  for  implementing  DoD  OPSEC  policy  and  guidance.  This  responsibility  is  assigned  to  the  Director  of  Cyber  and  Space  Operations  (AF/A3Z).  AF/A3Z will: 1.4.2.1.  Establish  an  AF  OPSEC  program  focused  on  senior  leadership  involvement using the management tools of assessments, surveys, training, education, threat analyses, resourcing, and awareness that, at a minimum, includes:   6  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 1.4.2.1.1.  Assign a full-time AF OPSEC PM (O-4 or civilian equivalent). 1.4.2.1.2.  Establish  AF  OPSEC  support  capabilities  that  provide  for  program development,  planning,  training,  assessment,  surveys,  operational  support,  and readiness training. 1.4.2.1.3.  Conduct  annual  reviews  and  validations  of  the  AF  OPSEC  program  as prescribed by DoD and AF policy/guidance. 1.4.2.1.4.  Ensure  OPSEC  surveys  are  conducted  for  subordinate  commands  and agencies in order to enhance mission effectiveness and reduce risk. 1.4.2.2.  Develop  Air  Force  Departmental  publications  to  define  policy,  guidance, responsibilities and authorities to establish the internal management processes necessary to carry out DoD policy/guidance.  Provide copies of all current service OPSEC program directives and/or policy implementation documents to the Joint Staff J-3. 1.4.2.3.  Support OPSEC programs at the national, DoD and Joint-level as necessary. 1.4.2.4.  Centrally plan, program, budget and manage training for the Air Force OPSEC program. 1.4.2.5.  Provide  oversight  and  advocacy  as  the  focal  point  for  AF  OPSEC  assessment capabilities. 1.4.2.6.  Ensure  appropriate  levels  of  standardized  OPSEC  training  and  education  are established and provided to all AF personnel, to include civil service personnel, and to all contractors who have access to mission critical information. 1.4.2.7.  Publish unclassified advisory tips and best practices aimed at  educating service members and their families about the official and personal use of social networking sites and  potential  vulnerabilities  exposed  by  posting  military  service-related  information online. 1.4.2.8.  Develop  policy  and  guidance  to  ensure  OPSEC  requirements  are  properly reflected in classified and unclassified contracts. 1.4.2.9.  Ensure  OPSEC  policy  development  activities  are  integrated  through  the  Air Force Security Policy and Oversight Board (AFSPOB). 1.4.3.  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  Office  of  Information  Dominance  and  Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) 1.4.3.1.  Ensures  OPSEC  principles  are  included  in  information  assurance  policy, guidance, and operational oversight. 1.4.3.2.  Ensures  OPSEC  principles  and  practices  are  correctly  reflected  in  the  AF Enterprise Architecture. 1.4.3.3.  Ensure  OPSEC  is  incorporated  into  the  developing  Net-centric  operating environments  to  mitigate  the  risks  of  classification  through  compilation  of  critical information. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   7  1.4.4.  The Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) develops policy and  guidance  to  ensure  OPSEC  is  considered  in  the  public  affairs  process  for  releasing information to the public. 1.4.5.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) 1.4.5.1.  Develop policy and guidance to ensure OPSEC is considered in AF acquisition and  RDT&E  for  critical  information  and  critical  program  information  (reference  DoDI 5200.39,  Critical  Program  Information  (CPI)  Protection  Within  the  Department  of Defense). 1.4.5.2.  Ensure  Government responsibilities and are included in contracts when applicable. contract requirements  properly reflect  OPSEC 1.4.6.  The  Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SAF/AA) provides coordination and integration of OPSEC policy and guidance through the AFSPOB. 1.4.7.  The Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General (SAF/IG) will 1.4.7.1.  IAW  AFPD  90-2,  Inspector  General—The  Inspection  System,  AFI  90-201, Inspector General Activities, and this Instruction, assess and report on AF organizational OPSEC  programs  for compliance, planning, and  operational readiness when conducting assessments, inspections, and/or management reviews. 1.4.7.2.  Include  OPSEC  as  a  critical  compliance  item  for  Operational  Readiness Inspection (ORI) and Unit Compliance Inspections (UCI) at all levels of command. 1.4.7.3.  Provide results of OPSEC assessments, inspections, and/or management reviews to AF/A3Z, Directorate of Cyber and Space Operations. 1.4.7.4.  Ensure  inspection  team  members  conducting  assessments,  inspections,  and  or management reviews on organizational OPSEC programs complete the required OPSEC training listed in Paragraph 5.3.2. 1.4.7.5.  Through  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  (AFOSI),  provide  OPSEC PMs/SMOs/Coordinators  and  commanders  with  AFOSI  threat  information  at  CONUS, OCONUS and deployed locations. 1.4.7.6.  Provide HUMINT (Human Intelligence) Vulnerability Assessment support when possible for OPSEC vulnerability assessments. 1.4.8.  Air Force MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will: 1.4.8.1.  Implement  AF  OPSEC  guidance  to  incorporate  and  institutionalize  OPSEC concepts  into  relevant  doctrine,  policies,  strategies,  programs,  budgets,  training, exercising, and evaluation methods.  At the base/installation level, FOAs and DRUs will comply with host MAJCOM and wing guidance. 1.4.8.2.  Develop effective OPSEC programs IAW guidance issued by AF/A3Z. 1.4.8.3.  Designate  an  organization  as  the  OPR  for  OPSEC  and  appoint  a  full-time OPSEC  PM  position  (O-3/4  or  civilian  equivalent).    This  position  should  be  placed within  the  operations  or  plans  element  (unless  MAJCOM  mission  and/or  structure requires  otherwise)  and  serve  as  the  POC  for  all  OPSEC  related  issues  between headquarters Air Force and the command.  DRUs and FOAs may request an exemption to   8  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 appointing  a  full-time  OPSEC  PM  position  by  submitting  a  waiver  signed  by  the commander to the AF OPSEC PM with justification for the request. 1.4.8.4.  Ensure  OPSEC  PMs  have  at  a  minimum  a  secret  clearance  (recommend  Top Secret)  and  accounts  established  on  the  SECRET  Internet  Protocol  Router  Network (SIPRNET)  and  the  Unclassified  but  Sensitive  Internet  Protocol  (IP)  Router  Network (NIPRNET). 1.4.8.5.  Enforce policy and issue guidance implementing supplements or other guidance as required. 1.4.8.6.  Consolidate  OPSEC  requirements  and  submit  them  according  to  the  AF capabilities  based  planning  process  (reference  AFI  10-601,  Capabilities-Based Requirements Development). 1.4.8.7.  Ensure  subordinate  organizations  consistently  apply  and  integrate  OPSEC  into day-to-day operations and/or other IO activities throughout the command. 1.4.8.8.  Ensure all subordinate organizations are identifying critical information for each operation, activity and exercise whether it be planned, conducted or supported. 1.4.8.9.  Ensure  all  subordinate  organizations  are  controlling  critical  information  and indicators. 1.4.8.10.  Ensure  all countermeasures as appropriate. subordinate  organizations  plan,  exercise  and implement 1.4.8.11.  Program  funds  for  OPSEC  through  established  budgeting  and  requirements processes. 1.4.8.12.  Ensure OPSEC considerations are applied in capabilities development and the acquisition process. 1.4.8.13.  Ensure  training  of  OPSEC  PMs  and  planners  is  accomplished  as  soon  as possible upon being appointed. 1.4.8.14.  Whenever  practical  all  OPSEC  PM,  SMO  and  OPSEC  planner  positions (billets)  are  assigned  the  OPSEC  special  experience  identifier  (SEI)  9O  or  234.    All individuals  performing  OPSEC  duties  will  be  awarded  SEI  9O  or  234  when  all requirements are met and approval granted by the commander and/or appropriate AFPC assignment managers.  SEIs will drive future training allocations upon receipt of orders or upon assignment to organizations with SEI coded positions. 1.4.8.15.  Develop  and  cultivate  the  intelligence  and  counterintelligence  relationships necessary to support OPSEC programs. 1.4.8.16.  Serve as the focal point for MAJCOM-level OPSEC assessments, surveys and support capabilities. 1.4.8.17.  Ensure  OPSEC  considerations  are  included  in  annual  reviews  of  AF unclassified public and private web sites and pages (including all AF public and private web sites hosted outside base firewalls) and in the approval process for posting new data to AF public and private web sites. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   9  1.4.8.18.  Ensure assistance is provided to PA as needed to ensure OPSEC considerations are included in PA review and approval processes for publishing/releasing information to the public. 1.4.8.19.  Forward  MAJCOM  annual  program  review  report  executive  summary  to include all reports from one level down for the fiscal year period of 1 Oct – 30 Sep to the AF OPSEC PM (AF/A3Z-CI) NLT 15 November each year (See Paragraph 6.2). 1.4.8.20.  Ensure  OPSEC  related  briefings  or  presentations  to  be  given  outside  the MAJCOM are coordinated through the Air  Force OPSEC  PM, AF/A3Z-CI, prior to  the presentation date. 1.4.8.21.  Coordinate with the Air Force Experimentation Office to incorporate Air Force OPSEC traditional  and  spiral development acquisition activities. into  Joint/Air  Force  experimentation, initiatives 1.4.9.  Air Combat Command (ACC) will: 1.4.9.1.  Assume all duties as lead command for AF OPSEC program. 1.4.9.2.  Organize,  train,  and  equip  assigned  forces  to  plan  and  execute  OPSEC  in  a theater of operations for Joint or combined operations in  the roles of aerospace  control, force application, force enhancement, and force support. 1.4.9.3.  Develop, document, and disseminate OPSEC tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) for the Combat Air Forces. 1.4.9.4.  Integrate OPSEC into the Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) construct. 1.4.9.5.  Develop,  maintain,  program  for,  and  provide  Air  Force  OPSEC  initial qualification training. 1.4.10.  Air Mobility Command (AMC) will: 1.4.10.1.  Lead  centralized  management  of  OPSEC  functions  and  the  establishment  and integration of OPSEC in Mobility Air Force operations. 1.4.10.2.  Develop Mobility Air Force (MAF) OPSEC TTPs. 1.4.10.3.  Integrate OPSEC into the AMC AOC construct. 1.4.10.4.  Develop  functional  area  and  functional  needs  analysis  for  MAF  and  submit through the AF capabilities based planning process. 1.4.10.5.  Centrally program for MAF OPSEC capabilities. 1.4.11.  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC)  will  ensure  OPSEC  is  integrated  into  all RDT&E  efforts.    When  critical  information  or  critical  program  information  is  involved, ensure  OPSEC  is  applied  as  a  protective  measure  throughout  the  life  cycle  of  all  weapon systems  IAW  DoDI  5200.39  and  AFI  63-101,  Acquisition  and  Sustainment  Life  Cycle Management. 1.4.12.  Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will: 1.4.12.1.  Provide  OPSEC  orientation  for  all  new  Air  Force  accessions  to  include  what OPSEC  is,  its  purpose,  threat  awareness,  and  the  individual's  role  in  protecting  critical information.   10  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 1.4.12.2.  Incorporate  OPSEC  education  into  all  professional  military  education.    At  a minimum,  this  will  include  the  purpose  of  OPSEC,  critical  information,  indicators, threats, vulnerabilities, and the individual's role in protecting critical information. 1.4.12.3.  Incorporate OPSEC concepts and capabilities into specialized courses, such as the  Contingency  Wartime  Planning  Course,  Joint  Air  Operations  Planning  Course,  and the Information Operations Fundamental Application Course.  These courses will include command  responsibilities  and  responsibilities  of  OPSEC  planners  in  Joint  Forces Command IO Cells and MAJCOMs. 1.4.12.4.  Ensure OPSEC is addressed in all technical and specialty school programs. 1.4.12.5.  Establish a validation process to ensure AF/A3Z-CI, reviews all AETC OPSEC training materials used in accession and professional military education. 1.4.13.  US  Air  Force  Academy  will  provide  OPSEC  orientation  for  all  new  Air  Force accessions to include what OPSEC is, its purpose, threat awareness, and the individual's role in protecting critical information. 1.4.14.  Academy of Military Science will provide OPSEC orientation for all new Air Force accessions to include what OPSEC is, its purpose, threat awareness, and the individual's role in protecting critical information. 1.4.15.  Commanders  and  Directors  will:  NOTE:  Wing  and  installation  commanders will follow the additional guidance in Chapter 2, Signature Management. 1.4.15.1.  Issue guidance regarding the establishment of OPSEC measures to all assigned personnel  to  ensure  OPSEC  is  integrated  into  day-to-day  and  contingency  operations.  Commanders  may  delegate  authority  for  OPSEC  program  management,  but  retain responsibility  for  risk  management  decisions  and  the  overall  implementation  of countermeasures.    They  must  determine  the  balance  between  countermeasures  and operational needs. 1.4.15.2.  Appoint  in  writing  a  primary  and  alternate  OPSEC  PM,  or  coordinator  and forward  to  the  next  higher  headquarters  (HHQ)  OPSEC  PM.    OPSEC  PMs  will  be assigned for a minimum of two years, or as area tour length dictates (remote tours only).  Organizations  where  an  assignment  is  less  than  two  years  will  request,  in  writing  a waiver to their HHQ OPSEC PM. 1.4.15.2.1.  Wing  or  installation  primary  OPSEC  PMs  will  be  an  O-3  or  above, civilian equivalent, or an E-7.  The alternate OPSEC PM will be an E-6 or above, or civilian equivalent.  Under no circumstances will contract personnel be appointed as a primary  or  alternate  OPSEC  PM.    At  a  minimum,  OPSEC  PMs  will  have  a  secret clearance (recommend Top Secret). 1.4.15.2.2.  OPSEC Coordinators can be officers, NCOs or civilian equivalent of any grade.  OPSEC Coordinators will have a secret clearance. 1.4.15.3.  Submit  request  through  servicing  MPF  for  award  of  SEI  9O  or  234  as appropriate  for  individuals  appointed  as  OPSEC  PMs,  or  Coordinators  who  meet  all qualifications. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   11  1.4.15.4.  Ensure  OPSEC  is  integrated  into  planning  efforts  to  increase  mission effectiveness.  Ensure organizational planners are trained to incorporate OPSEC into all functional areas of plans. 1.4.15.5.  Ensure  critical  information  lists  (CIL)  are  developed  and  procedures  are  in place to control critical information and associated indicators. 1.4.15.6.  Ensure OPSEC is considered for all organizational contracts. (See Chapter 8) 1.4.15.7.  Ensure  there  is  a  valid  mission  need  to  disseminate  information  publicly  and that review procedures are implemented. 1.4.15.8.  Develop, establish, and implement policies and procedures to deny adversaries the  opportunity  to  take  advantage  of  publicly  available  information,  especially  when aggregated. 1.4.15.8.1.  Ensure  the  OPSEC  program  includes  all  personnel  who  may  have potential  access  to  critical  information  to  include  Airmen,  DAF  civilians,  DoD contractors, and family members. 1.4.15.8.2.  Budget  for  OPSEC  awareness  and  education  training  promotional campaign incentives; budget, acquire, and distribute OPSEC education materials. 1.4.15.8.3.  Ensure  the  OPSEC  training  program  clearly  communicates  to  all personnel  that  the  command  will  consider  for  appropriate  disciplinary  action  all failures to follow directed OSPEC measures and/or unauthorized disclosure of critical information. 1.4.15.9.  Ensure  OPSEC  assessments  are  conducted  annually  to  support  operational missions. 1.4.15.10.  Ensure  OPSEC  PMs  and  Coordinators  integrate  into  or  liaise  with  the information  protection, force protection, antiterrorism,  and threat  working  groups and if necessary establish a working group to address OPSEC concerns.  In addition, an ad-hoc working  group  will  be  established  for  any  large-scale  operation  or  exercise.    NOTE: Refer to AFTTP 3-1.IO, Tactical Employment – Information Operations (U), Attachment 4 for additional guidance. 1.4.15.11.  Ensure  unit  deployment  managers  add  OPSEC  awareness  training  as  a mandatory requirement for deploying personnel. 1.4.15.12.  Ensure  all  personnel  such  as,  Web  Site  administrators,  Webmasters, supervisors,  public  affairs  specialists,  OPSEC  coordinators,  PMs,  SMOs,  etc.,  who review  information  for  public  release  complete  OPSEC  training  focused  on  reviewing information that is intended for posting utilizing Internet-based Capabilities. 1.4.16.  OPSEC PMs, Coordinators and Planners:  NOTE: Wing and installation SMOs will follow the guidance in Chapter 2, Signature Management. 1.4.16.1.  OPSEC  PMs  are  assigned the wing/installation level.  OPSEC PMs may be assigned to FOAs and DRUs depending on their size, need and organizational reporting chain. in  writing  at  organizations  above   12  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 1.4.16.2.  OPSEC  Coordinators  are  assigned  in  writing  at  each  subordinate  organization below the wing-level.  At the MAJCOM level, National Guard Bureau (NGB), FOAs, or DRUs, OPSEC Coordinators will be appointed within HQ directorates, as appropriate. 1.4.16.3.  OPSEC PMs, and Coordinators will: 1.4.16.3.1.  Have at a minimum a secret clearance (recommend Top Secret for Wing level positions and higher).  In addition, OPSEC PMs will have accounts established on SIPRNET. 1.4.16.3.2.  Advise commander or director on all OPSEC and signature management related matters to include developing operating instructions, recommending guidance, and  OPSEC  measures.    Review  periodically  (at  a  minimum  annually)  for  currency and update as necessary. 1.4.16.3.3.  Tenant  organization  OPSEC  PMs  and  Coordinators  will  closely coordinate  and  integrate  with  host  wing  on  any  OPSEC  or  signature  management initiatives  and  working  groups.    However,  administrative  oversight  of  tenant organization’s program still resides with its HHQ OPSEC PM. 1.4.16.3.4.  Incorporate OPSEC into organizational plans, exercises, and activities. 1.4.16.3.5.  Develop,  implement,  and  distribute  commander’s  OPSEC  guidance memorandums  to  include  CILs,  and  follow  up  with  new  or  updates  to  local  or MAJCOM  supplements  to  AFI  10-701,  Operations  Security  (OPSEC).    Review periodically (at a minimum annually) for currency and update as necessary. 1.4.16.3.6.  Ensure  procedures  are  in  place  to  control  critical  information  and associated indicators.  Review periodically (at a minimum annually) for currency and effectiveness. 1.4.16.3.7.  Utilize  assessment  results  to  mitigate  discovered  vulnerabilities  and  aid organization OPSEC awareness efforts. 1.4.16.3.8.  Work  closely  with  PA,  information  protection,  web  administrators,  and other  officials  designated  by  the  commander  who  share  responsibility  for  the protection and release of information to ensure critical information is protected. 1.4.16.3.8.1.  Prior to submitting to PA, conduct for OPSEC concerns a review of organizational information intended for publication or release to the public.  This could include, but is not limited to base newspapers, safety magazines, flyers, web pages, interviews, and information for news articles. 1.4.16.3.8.2.  Answer  questions,  assist  in  the  development  of  guidance,  and provide  advice  to  PA  and  other  information-releasing  officials  concerning protecting critical information during reviews of public and/or private web pages. 1.4.16.3.9.  Provide  oversight  and  management  of  organization’s  OPSEC  education and training. 1.4.16.3.9.1.  Ensure  initial  mission-oriented  OPSEC  education  and  awareness training  is  accomplished  upon  arrival  of  newly  assigned  personnel  and  then annually thereafter. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   13  1.4.16.3.9.2.  Track  initial  and  annual  awareness  training  and  report  training initiatives via the annual OPSEC program report to the next HHQ OPSEC PM. 1.4.16.3.10.  Coordinate,  facilitate,  and  conduct  annual  OPSEC  assessments  such  as surveys, annual program reviews and vulnerability assessments as listed in Chapter 6. 1.4.16.3.10.1.  Coordinate  with  appropriate  organizations  to  resolve/mitigate assessment findings as required. 1.4.16.3.10.2.  OPSEC  PMs  will  establish  and  maintain  Operations  Security Collaboration ARchitecture (OSCAR) accounts. 1.4.16.3.11.  Conduct  and  forward  annual  program  review  for  the  period  of  1  Oct through 30 Sep each fiscal year to HHQ according to MAJCOM guidance. 1.4.16.3.12.  OPSEC  PMs  will  establish,  train,  and  chair  working  groups  to  address OPSEC or signature management concerns and to assist with planning and execution of OPSEC plans and signature management activities. 1.4.16.3.13.  Conduct Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) as required or requested. 1.4.17.  All Air Force Personnel:  OPSEC is everyone’s responsibility.  Ideally, the AF uses OPSEC  measures to  protect  its critical  information.   Failure to  properly implement OPSEC measures can result in serious injury or death to our personnel; damage to weapons systems, equipment  and  facilities;  loss  of  sensitive  technologies;  and  mission  degradation  or  failure.  OPSEC is a continuous process and an inherent part of military culture.  Failure to implement directed  OPSEC  measures  will  be  considered  by  commanders/directors  for  appropriate disciplinary  action.    OPSEC  must  be  fully  integrated  into  the  execution  of  all  Air  Force operations and supporting activities. All AF personnel (active duty, reserve, ANG, Air Force civilians, and DoD contractors) will: 1.4.17.1.  Be familiar with their organization’s critical information. 1.4.17.2.  Protect critical and/or sensitive information from disclosure. 1.4.17.2.1.  When  publicly  posting  or  publishing  work-related  information  that potentially contains critical or sensitive information airmen are encouraged to solicit the  advice  of immediate  supervisor,  security  office  and/or  OPSEC PM/SM/coordinator.  This will aid in preventing disclosure of critical and/or sensitive information within the public domain.  Personnel that do not know what information is  critical  to  an  organization  cannot  reasonably  conclude  that  posting  or  publishing information will not result in an unauthorized disclosure. their 1.4.17.2.1.1.  This  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to  letters,  resumes,  articles, electronic  mail  (e-mail),  web  site  postings,  web  log  (blog)  postings,  internet message board discussions, or other forms of dissemination or documentation. 1.4.17.2.1.2.  Supervisors  will  provide  guidance  to  personnel  regarding  critical and/or sensitive information to ensure it is not disclosed in public forums.  Each organization’s  OPSEC  PM/SM/coordinator  will  advise  supervisors  on  means  to prevent the public disclosure of critical and/or sensitive information. 1.4.17.2.1.3.  Encryption  serves  as  one  measure  to  protect  critical  or  sensitive information transmitted over unclassified networks.  Encrypt all e-mail messages   14  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 containing  critical information. (AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging Paragraph 6.1.2) information,  OPSEC indicators,  and  other  sensitive 1.4.17.2.2.  Do  not  publicly  disseminate,  or  publish  photographs  displaying  critical and/or  sensitive  information.    Examples  include  but  are  not  limited  to:  Improvised Explosive Device strikes, battle scenes, casualties, destroyed or damaged equipment, personnel killed in action (both friendly and adversary), and the protective measures of military facilities. 1.4.17.2.3.  Do not publicly reference, disseminate, or publish critical and/or sensitive information already compromised.  This provides further unnecessary exposure of the compromised information and may serve as validation. 1.4.17.2.4.  Actively  encourage  others  (including  family  members  and  family readiness groups) to protect critical and/or sensitive information. 1.4.17.2.5.  Destroy  (burn,  shred,  etc.)  critical  and/or  sensitive  unclassified information  no inadvertent  disclosure  and/or reconstruction of this material. longer  needed to  prevent the 1.4.17.3.  Implement  protection  measures  as  ordered  by  the  commander,  director,  or  an individual in an equivalent position. 1.4.17.4.  Know  who  their  organization’s  OPSEC  PM  and  Coordinator  is  and  contact them for questions, concerns, or recommendations for OPSEC or signature management related topics. 1.4.17.5.  Consider attempts by unauthorized personnel to solicit critical and/or sensitive information  as  human  intelligence  (HUMINT)  gathering  and  consider  it  a  HUMINT incident. 1.4.17.5.1.  AF personnel who have been involved in or have knowledge of a possible incident  will  report  all  facts  immediately  to  the  nearest  supporting  AFOSI  office  as required by AFI 71-101, Vol 4, Counterintelligence. 1.4.17.5.2.  If  these  offices  are  not  readily  available,  HUMINT  incidents  will  be reported to the organization’s security manager or commander who will ensure that, without exception, reports are relayed as securely and  expeditiously within 24 hours to the nearest AFOSI organization. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   15  Chapter 2 SIGNATURE MANAGEMENT 2.1.  Signature  Management.  Signature management (SM) utilizes a process of profiling day-to-day observable activities and operational trends at installations and each of its resident units.  SM  incorporates  preparatory  methodologies  of  OPSEC  and  MILDEC  creating  synergies  and resource  efficiencies  for  both  the  OPSEC  and  MILDEC  wing/installation  programs.    These methodologies result in identified processes and details that can be used in efforts to defend or exploit  operational  profiles  resident  at  a  given  military  installation.    Defense  of  operational profiles  is  accomplished  by  implementing  protective  measures  to  deny  or  mitigate  adversary collection  of  critical  information.    Development  of  protective  measures  is  often  accomplished using  MILDEC  tactics,  techniques  and  procedures  (TTPs).    The  TTPs  used  for  protection  of operational profiles are collectively referred to as Deception in Support of OPSEC (DISO). NOTE: The guidance in this chapter is intended for Signature Management personnel at the wing/installation level.  The Signature Management Officer (SMO) and Signature Management NCO (SMNCO) take on the responsibilities of the OPSEC and Military Deception (MILDEC) PM. 2.1.1.  Signature Management is administered through a wing or installation SMO/SMNCO.  An SMO/SMNCO can be appointed the primary or alternate wing or installation OPSEC PM.  When  an  air  component  commander’s  MILDEC  plan  requires  Air  Force  wings  and installations  to  present  specified  observable  activities,  the  air  component  commander’s MILDEC  planner  will  determine  the  actions  required  by  the  supporting  unit(s)  and  will communicate those requirements to the SMO/SMNCO. 2.1.2.  Signature management, OPSEC, and MILDEC are a commander's responsibility.  The SMO/SMNCO  will  define  the  local  operating  environment  and  capture  process  points  that present key signatures and profiles with critical information value.  This process, known as the Base Profiling Process (BPP), is the deliberate effort to identify functional areas and the observables  they  produce  to  contribute  to  the  overall  signature  of  day-to-day  activities  and operational trends.  Once the BPP is complete, the results can be used to develop a wing level CIL and identify key process points for potential protection or exploitation.  This ultimately provides  commanders  several  options  to  exploit  or  deny  operational  signatures  to  ensure mission effectiveness. 2.2.  Wing or installation commanders will: 2.2.1.  Appoint  in  writing  a  primary  and  alternate  SMO/SMNCO  who  will  function  as  the OPR for all SM activities.  The primary SMO will be an O-3 or above, or civilian equivalent.  The alternate SMO will be an E-6 or above, or civilian equivalent.  Under no circumstances will  contract  personnel  be  appointed  as  a  primary  or  alternate  SMO/SMNCO.    At  a minimum,  SMO/SMNCOs  will  have  a  secret  clearance  (recommend  Top  Secret)  and  have two  years  retainability  in  the  position  or  as  area  tour  length  dictates  (remote  tours  only).  Organizations  requiring  appointment  of  an  SMO/SMNCO  for  less  than  two  years  will request, in writing, a waiver through their MAJCOM OPSEC PM from AF/A3Z-CI. 2.2.1.1.  In  the  event  that  host  and  tenant  organizations  on  a  given  installation  are subordinate to different MAJCOMs, the host MAJCOM OPSEC PM will coordinate and   16  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 document how SM using protective and exploitation countermeasures will be conducted on that installation. 2.2.1.1.1.  All  wings  based  on  the  installation,  regardless  of  their  MAJCOM affiliation, will have a SMO/SMNCO assigned.  However, the host wing/installation SMO/SMNCO  will  act  as  the  lead  for  all  SM  activities.    This  agreement  will  be stipulated  on  a  Memorandum  of  Agreement  (MOA)  and  should  carry  the  weight  of each  signatory  Wing  Commander  on  the  MOA  as  the  designated  SMO/SMNCO executes their duties for the installation. 2.2.1.1.2.  The substance of this arrangement will be documented and kept on file for every  installation  for  which  this  condition  applies  and  incorporated  into  MAJCOM supplements  to  this  instruction.    A  copy  of  the  MOA  will  be  forwarded  to  the MAJCOM OPSEC PM and AF/A3Z-CI. 2.2.2.  Submit  request  through  servicing  MPF  for  award  of  special  experience  (SEI)  9O  or 234 as appropriate  for individuals  appointed as SMO/SMNCOs who meet  all qualifications as identified in the Air Force Officer and Enlisted Classification Directories. 2.3.  Signature  Management  Officer/Signature  Management  Non-Commissioned  Officer will: 2.3.1.  Follow guidance in this instruction and when appointed/assigned for MILDEC, follow AFI 10-704, Military Deception Program. 2.3.2.  Advise  the  commander  on  all  SM  related  matters,  to  include  developing  and recommending  policy,  guidance,  and  instructions.    Review  periodically  for  currency  and update as necessary. 2.3.3.  Use  the  base  profiling  process  to  develop  and  maintain  a  master  checklist  of  all activities associated with the mission areas for the wing or installation (i.e., recall, mobility processing,  aircraft  generation,  airlift  load  generation  and  marshaling,  munitions,  personnel and  equipment  deployment,  etc.).    The  checklist  will  be  modified,  as  required,  to  support tasks  associated  with  supported  commander’s  requirements.    Therefore,  well-developed master checklists are mandatory. NOTE: MAJCOM subordinate organizations below the air component level are NOT required to develop supporting MILDEC tabs (C-3A) to combatant command plans or supporting air component plans. 2.3.4.  Develop and maintain a current commander approved CIL. 2.3.5.  Implement  SM  execution  checklists  as  directed  or  authorized  by  their  wing  or installation commander, MAJCOM OPSEC PM, or the supported air component commander, as appropriate. 2.3.6.  Identify  key  personnel  involved  in  the  planning  and  execution  of  each  of  the  major functional  mission  areas,  and  select  subject  matter  experts  (SMEs)  who  can  assist  in  the development, exercising, and execution of the protective or exploitation countermeasures and activities.  Grant  access  to  SM material  and plans on the commander's authority  alone (this may be delegated to the SMO/SMNCO for expediency as determined by the commander). AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   17  2.3.7.  Work  closely  with  antiterrorism,  force  protection,  information  protection,  PA,  web administrators, and other officials designated by the commander who share responsibility for the protection and release of information to ensure critical information is protected. 2.3.8.  Answer questions, develop guidance and provide advice to PA and other information releasing officials concerning protecting critical information during reviews of public and/or private web pages. 2.3.9.  Attend the Air Force Signature Management Course within 90 days of appointment or by  the  next  available  class.    If  scheduling  conflicts  exist,  MAJCOM  OPSEC  PMs  must document  and  ensure  SMO/SMNCOs  are  scheduled  for  the  next  available  course  not  to exceed 180 days.  If training is not completed within 180 days, MAJCOM OPSEC PMs must request a waiver from AF/A3Z-CI. 2.3.10.  Conduct  SM  exercises  at  the  wing  or  installation  as  directed  by  the  parent MAJCOMs supplemental guidance. 2.3.11.  Work  with  exercise  evaluation  teams  to  observe  and  evaluate  mission  profiles  and signatures, as well as measures of effectiveness (MOE) and measures of performance (MOP) that  assess  the  organizations  ability  to  mitigate  loss  of  critical  information.    Evaluate  how organization personnel execute protection or exploitation measures.  Any deficiencies or best practices  will  be  submitted  in  after  action  reports  and  to  the  AF  lessons  learned  database (https://www.jllis.mil/usaf/)  when  applicable.    Lessons  learned  will  be  used  to  develop tactics improvement proposals (TIPs) IAW AFI 10-204 and AFI 11-260. 2.3.12.  Establish, train, and coordinate with the unit SM working group (SMWG) members to assist with planning and execution of SM activities. 2.3.13.  Coordinate,  facilitate,  and  serve  as  the  focal  point  for  all  assessments  in  support  of SM  activities  such  as  surveys,  annual  program  reviews,  and  vulnerability  assessments  as listed in Chapter 6. 2.3.14.  Develop and forward annual program reviews/reports for the period of 1 Oct through 30 Sep each fiscal year to HHQ according to MAJCOM guidance. 2.4.  Signature  Management  Planning  and  Coordination.  NOTE:  Ensure  proper  security guidelines are followed when planning and coordinating SM activities. 2.4.1.  Submit  SM  exercise  concepts  and  execution  checklists  to  their  MAJCOM  for coordination (refer AFI 10-704 and the MAJCOM Supplement for more details). 2.4.2.  Submit  SM  execution  checklists  supporting  real-world  operations  to  the  appropriate tasking authority (e.g., supported air component commands or MAJCOM OPSEC PM). 2.4.3.  For  SM  activities  utilizing  exploitation  countermeasures  that  require  implementation outside of the installation, coordinate with the host wing/installation MILDEC POC (refer to AFI 10-704, Paragraph 2.4.3). 2.4.4.  Request  assistance  from  the  intelligence  organization  at  the  next  level  of  their administrative and/or operational chain of command when requiring intelligence that exceeds organic  capability.    Counterintelligence  support  will  be  requested  from  the  unit's  local AFOSI detachment.   18  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 2.4.5.  Organizations needing assistance from Air Staff will make their request through their MAJCOM OPSEC PM. 2.5.  Exploitation  Countermeasures  (Refer  to  AFI  10-704,  Paragraph  2.4.3.  for  additional guidance). AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   19  Chapter 3 OPSEC PLANNING 3.1.  General.  This  chapter  provides  direction  for  planners  at  wings,  Air  Force  Component Headquarters (AFFOR and AOC) to integrate OPSEC into plans.  Air Force forces can be under observation  at  their  peacetime  bases  and  locations,  in  training  or  exercises,  while  moving,  or when  deployed  to  the  field  conducting  actual  operations.    OPSEC  methodology  provides systematic  and  comprehensive  analysis  designed  to  identify  observable  friendly  actions  that could  betray  intentions  or  capabilities.    Therefore,  OPSEC  principles  must  be  integrated  into operational, support, exercise, and acquisition planning.  All plans will be reviewed periodically to ensure currency and updated when required. 3.1.1.  OPSEC  PMs,  SMO/SMNCOs,  or  Coordinators  will  assist  organization  planners  to incorporate protection of critical information and indicators into supported operational plans (OPLANS)  and  supporting  plans.    They  will  also  assist  exercise  planners  in  developing master  scenario  events  listings  (MSEL)  and  MOP  to  train  organization  personnel  in  the application  or  execution  of  countermeasures  (See  AFDD  2,  Operations  and  Organizations, for more information concerning MOE and MOP. 3.1.2.  OPSEC  Planners  will  follow  guidance  as  outlined  in  AFI  13-1AOC,  Volume  3, Operational Procedures-Air and Space Operations Center, and Chapter 3 of this document. 3.2.  Operational  Planning.  OPSEC  will  be  included  in  all  OPLANs,  concept  plans (CONPLANs), functional plans (FUNCPLANs), and operation orders (OPORDS), etc..  Planners will use existing TTPs to develop Tab C to Appendix 3 to Annex C to the OPORD or OPLAN.  The  planning  staff  will  identify  critical  information  and  OPSEC  indicators  from  all  functional areas requiring protection throughout each phase of the operation.  Risk assessments will be used to identify applicable countermeasures to mitigate any unacceptable operational risks.  MOP and MOE will be developed for each OPSEC measure. 3.2.1.  Operational  planning  is  typically  focused  at  the  Air  Force  Component  Headquarters (AFFOR  and  AOC),  with  reach-back  support  outside  the  theater  when  appropriate.    When planning  duties  are  split,  all  responsible  entities  will  integrate  OPSEC  into  their  planning efforts (see also JP 3-13.3, Operations Security, Chapter 3).  As the supported organization, the theater AOC will resolve debates and provide general guidance. 3.3.  Support  Planning.  Integrate  OPSEC  into  all  wartime  and  contingency  plans  as  well  as support plans, i.e., programming plans and in-garrison expeditionary site plans. 3.4.  Exercise  Planning.  In  order  to  enhance  combat  readiness  and  improve  crisis  response, OPSEC  will  be  included  in  all  exercise  plans  (EXPLANs).    Specific  OPSEC  and/or  signature management scenarios will be included in the exercise MSELs with MOE and MOP to assess the proficiency  of  functional  planners  to  mitigate  loss  of  critical  information  and  organization personnel to execute countermeasures.  Deficiencies or best practices will be submitted to the AF lessons  learned  database  (https://www.jllis.mil/usaf/)  when  applicable  to  assist  in  the assessment of critical information being posting in public forums.  Lessons learned will be used to  develop  tactics  improvement  proposals  (TIPs)  IAW  AFI  10-204,  Readiness  Exercises  and After-Action Reporting Program, and AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program.   20  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 3.4.1.  OPSEC measures will also be employed during exercises to minimize observations of sensitive training activities by adversary surveillance and treaty verification activities. 3.5.  Acquisition  Planning.  OPSEC  requirements  will  be  determined  for  all  acquisitions  and contractor-supported efforts beginning with operational capabilities requirements generation and continues  through  design,  development,  test  and  evaluation,  fielding,  sustainment  and  system disposal.    When  required  to  protect  sensitive  military  operations,  commanders  will  ensure OPSEC  requirements  are  added  to  contracts.    Commanders  will  evaluate  contractor-developed and proposed OPSEC programs for compliance with required standards. NOTE: For more detailed planning instructions, refer to AFI 10-400 series publications. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   21  Chapter 4 OPSEC PROCESS 4.1.  General:  OPSEC  is  an  iterative  five-step  process:  1)  Identify  critical  information;  2) Analyze  threats;  3)  Analyze  vulnerabilities;  4)  Assess  risk;  and  5)  Apply  countermeasures.  Although normally applied in a sequential manner the process during deliberate or crisis action planning, dynamic situations may require any step to be revisited at any time. 4.2.  Identify Critical Information: 4.2.1.  Critical  information  is  a  specific  fact  about  friendly  intentions,  capabilities,  and activities vitally needed by adversaries for them to plan and act effectively, so as to guarantee failure or unacceptable consequences for friendly mission accomplishment.  The product of the  first  step  in  the  OPSEC  process  is  to  record  your  critical  information  in  a  critical information list (CIL). 4.2.2.  Critical  information  is  best  identified  by  the  individuals  responsible  for  the  planning and  execution  of  the  organization’s  mission.    A  working  group  or  staff  planning  team  can most effectively accomplish this task.  Once a CIL is developed, commanders must approve the list and then ensure their critical information is protected and/or controlled. 4.2.3.  Critical information will be identified at the earliest stages of planning an operation or activity and continuously updated as necessary to support mission effectiveness. 4.3.  Analyze Threats: 4.3.1.  A threat is an adversary with the capability and intent to undertake action detrimental to the success of program activities or operations. 4.3.2.  The primary source of local threat information is your local AFOSI detachment.  For mission related intelligence support, contact  your local intelligence unit.   Generic validated threat data is provided by the Defense Intelligence Agency via the OPSEC assessment tool, OSCAR. 4.3.3.  Intelligence  organizations  analyze  the  threat  through  research  of  intelligence, counterintelligence,  and  open  source  information  to  identify  who  is  likely  to  disrupt,  deny, degrade, or destroy planned operations. 4.3.4.  A threat assessment should identify adversaries, their goals, what they already know, their capability and intent to collect critical information, and potential courses of action. 4.4.  Analyze Vulnerabilities: 4.4.1.  A vulnerability exists when the adversary is capable of collecting critical information or indicators, analyzing them  and then acting quickly enough to  impact  friendly objectives.  The vulnerability can be your procedures, a failure of traditional security, poor judgment on the part of leadership, the fact that we process critical information on data based systems, or the system’s design itself. 4.4.1.1.  An indicator is a friendly detectable action and open-source information that can be interpreted or pieced together by an adversary to derive critical information.   22  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 4.4.2.  A vulnerability exists when the adversary is capable of collecting critical information and/or  indicators,  correctly  analyzing  them,  and  then  takes  timely  action.    The  adversary essentially  uses  your  critical  information  to  support  their  decision-making  process.    The adversary has then exploited your vulnerability to obtain an advantage over you. 4.4.3.  A vulnerability analysis is the examination of your processes, projects or missions to determine  if  you  have  inherent,  naturally  occurring  or  self-induced  vulnerabilities  or indicators that put your critical information and thus your mission at risk. 4.5.  Assess Risk: 4.5.1.  A risk is a measure of the potential degree to which protected information is subject to loss  through  adversary  exploitation.    Risk  is  assessed  as  the  probability  an  adversary  will gain knowledge of your critical information and the impact (on your mission) if the adversary is  successful.  A working  group or staff planning team  must conduct  a risk  assessment and develop recommended countermeasures based on operational planning and current operating environment.  A typical risk assessment will: 4.5.1.1.  Compare  vulnerabilities  identified  with  the  probability  of  an  adversary  being able to exploit it in time to be useful to determine a risk level. 4.5.1.2.  Determine  potential  countermeasures  to  reduce  vulnerabilities  with  the  highest risk.    The  most  desirable  countermeasures  are  those  that  combine  the  highest  possible protection  with  the  least  resource  requirements  and/or  adverse  effect  on  operational effectiveness. 4.6.  Apply Countermeasures: 4.6.1.  Countermeasures  are  anything  that  effectively  negates  or  mitigates  an  adversary’s ability  to  exploit  vulnerabilities.    Countermeasures  may  be  both  offensive  and  defensive  in nature. 4.6.2.  Potential  countermeasures,  among  other  actions  are,  camouflage,  concealment, deception  (CCD),    intentional  deviations  from  normal  patterns,  and  direct  strikes  against adversary collection. 4.6.3.  The  working  group  or  staff  planning  team  through  the  OPSEC  PM,  SMO  or Coordinator will submit recommended countermeasures for commander approval through the operational  planning  process  for  employment  or  through  appropriate  staffing  process.  Organizations  that  do  not  have  or  require  a  planning  cell  will  submit  recommended countermeasures to the commander through appropriate staffing process. 4.6.4.  Countermeasures  must  be  synchronized  with  other  components  of  IO  to  achieve synergies in efforts to influence the adversary’s perceptions and situational awareness.  Care must  be  taken  so  that  countermeasures  do  not  become  vulnerabilities  or  unacceptable indicators themselves. 4.6.5.  During the execution of countermeasures, the adversary’s reaction to the measures is monitored,  if  possible,  to  provide  feedback  that  can  be  used  to  assess  effectiveness  or determine potential unintended consequences. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   23  Chapter 5 OPSEC EDUCATION AND TRAINING 5.1.  General.  All  Air Force personnel  (military  and civilian) and contractors who have access to  mission  critical  information  require  a  general  knowledge  of  threats,  vulnerabilities  and  their responsibilities  associated  with  protecting  critical  information.    This  is  accomplished  through initial and annual OPSEC training.  Standardized AF OPSEC awareness training located on the AF  Advanced  Distributed  Learning  Service  is  the  baseline  training  required  for  all  personnel.  Organization specific training will be provided in addition to this training to ensure all personnel in the Air Force are aware of local threats, vulnerabilities and critical information unique to their duty assignment.  OPSEC PMs/SMO/SMNCOs/Coordinators, and planners assigned to OPSEC positions  require  more  in-depth  training  designed  to  ensure  proper  management,  planning,  and execution of organizational OPSEC programs. 5.2.  All Personnel: 5.2.1.  Awareness  education  will  be  provided  to  all  personnel  (military,  civilian  and contractors) upon initial entrance/accession into military service. 5.2.2.  Awareness education provided in accession programs will encompass what OPSEC is, its purpose, threat awareness and the individual's role in protecting critical information. 5.2.3.  Organization-specific initial OPSEC awareness training will be provided at each new duty location as part of in-processing and annually thereafter, at a minimum.  Personnel must understand the scope of the threats, the nature of the vulnerabilities and their responsibility to execute  countermeasures  to  protect  critical  information  and  organization  specific  OPSEC indicators.    Annual  training  must  include,  at  a  minimum,  updated  threat  and  vulnerability information,  changes  to  critical  information  and  new  procedures  and/or  countermeasures implemented by the organization. 5.2.3.1.  In  addition,  commanders/directors  shall  encourage  assigned  personnel  to  share OPSEC awareness information with family members (both immediate and extended) and social network "friends".  This will ensure family members and friends understand how adversaries  can  use  public  media  sources  such  as  but  not  limited  to  web  sites,  blogs, social networking sites, newspapers, and television to obtain critical information that can be used to target AF members and their families. 5.2.3.2.  Procurement of low value promotional and awareness aids such as pens, pencils, magnets,  key  chains,  lanyards,  etc.,  is  authorized  for  the  exclusive  intent  to  promote OPSEC  awareness  and  education  in  accordance  with  organizational  missions.    For Guidance, refer to AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures. 5.2.4.  OPSEC  PMs/SMO/SMNCOs/Coordinators  will  provide  OPSEC  training  or  training materials  to  contract  employees  within  90  days  of  employees’  initial  assignment  to  the contract.      24  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 5.3.  OPSEC PMs/SMO/SMNCOs/Coordinators, Planners, Inspection Teams: 5.3.1.  Formal  OPSEC  training.    Formal  OPSEC  training  is  required  for  all  OPSEC PMs/SMO/SMNCOs, and planners assigned to OPSEC positions. Formal OPSEC training is any in-residence course intended to support the AF OPSEC Program. 5.3.1.1.  Completion  of  the  Air  Force  Signature  Management  Course  is  mandatory  for OPSEC  PMs  (below  MAJCOM  level),  SMO/SMNCOs  and  planners  within  90  days  of appointment  and  within  180  days  of  appointment  for  MAJCOM  OPSEC  PMs.    If scheduling  conflicts  exist,  MAJCOM  OPSEC  PMs  must  document  and  ensure SMO/SMNCOs  are  scheduled  for  the  next  available  course  not  to  exceed  180  days.    If training is not completed within 180 days, MAJCOM OPSEC PMs must request a waiver from the AF OPSEC PM. 5.3.1.2.  Completion  of    OPSE-2500,  OPSEC  Analysis  and  Program  Management Course    is  required  for  all  OPSEC  PMs  within  90  days  of  appointment.    If  scheduling conflicts  exist, OPSEC  PMs  must document and ensure they  are scheduled for the next available  course  not  to  exceed  180  days.    If  training  is  not  completed  within  180  days, individuals must notify their HHQ OPSEC PM.   OPSEC  Coordinators,  planners,  vulnerability 5.3.2.  OPSEC  Orientation  Training. assessment team, inspection team, and Operations Security Working Group (OWG) members are required to complete OPSEC orientation training within 30 days of assignment to OPSEC duties.   The  Interagency  OPSEC  Support  Staff’s  (IOSS)  multimedia  product  ―An Introduction  to  OPSEC  (An  Interactive  Primer  by  the  Department  of  Defense)‖  is  the accepted method for completing OPSEC orientation.  It is high recommended personnel seek out additional OPSEC training to assist in accomplishing their duties.  Information regarding required  and  additional  OPSEC training  can  be  received  from  OPSEC  PMs  or SMO/SMNCOs. 5.3.3.  OPSEC  Planner  Mission  Readiness  Training  (MRT).    Personnel  working  as  OPSEC planners  in  an  AOC  require  MRT  that  encompasses  initial  qualification  training  (IQT), mission  qualification  training  (MQT),  and  continuation  training  (CT).    IQT  will  consist  of formal  training  (either  SMC  or  OSPE-2500,  OPSEC  Analysis  and  Program  Management Course).    MQT  will  consist  of  mission  specific  training  and  will  be  documented  via Stan/Eval  processes.    CT  will  be  provided  as  needed.    MRT  will  be  accomplished  during training exercises. 5.3.4.  Quality  Assurance  Evaluators (QAE)  and  Contracting  Officer  Technical Representatives (COTR) will complete OPSEC training designed for QAE and COTR duties provided  by  the  OPSEC  PM/SMO/SMNCO/Coordinator  within  90  days  of  being  assigned duties.  OPSEC PM/SMO/SMNCO/Coordinators are encouraged to  use the training located on  Defense  Acquisition  University  -  "CLC  107,  OPSEC  Contract  Requirements" https://learn.dau.mil/html/clc/Clc1.jsp  along  with  any  specific  unit  tailored  OPSEC training. 5.3.5.  Web Site Administrators, Webmasters, and anyone (superiors, public affairs specialist, OPSEC  coordinators,  PMs,  SMO/SMNCO,  etc.)  who  has  the  responsibility  to  review information  for  public  release  will  complete  OPSEC  training  focused  on  reviewing information  to  be posted on  Internet-based Capabilities.  The IOSS OSPE 1500, OPSEC  & AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   25  Public  Release  Decisions  and  OPSE-3500,  OPSEC  &  Web  Risk  Assessment  are  the  AF acceptable training methods to fulfill this requirement. 5.4.  Joint and Interagency OSPEC Support: 5.4.1.  Joint Operations Security Support Center.  The Joint OPSEC Support Center (JOSC) provides direct support to the Joint Information Operations Warfare Command (JIOWC) and Joint  Force  Commanders  through  the  integration  of  OPSEC  into  operations,  plans,  and exercises  and  by  providing  staff-level  program  development  and  training  and  OPSEC vulnerability  assessments  when  directed.    The  JOSC  serves  as  the  OPSEC  Joint  Center  of Excellence  and  provides  OPSEC  training  and  instruction  in  support  of  the  Combatant Commands. 5.4.2.  Interagency  Operations  Security  Support  Staff.    The  Interagency  OPSEC  Support Staff (IOSS) supports the National OPSEC Program by providing tailored training, assisting in program development, producing multimedia products and presenting conferences for the defense,  security,  intelligence,  research  and  development,  acquisition  and  public  safety communities.    Its  mission  is  to  help  government  organizations  develop  their  own,  self-sufficient OPSEC programs in order to protect United States programs and activities.  IOSS offers a multitude of OPSEC training aids available to all OPSEC professionals. 5.4.3.  Air Force personnel  are welcome and  encouraged to  receive training from the JOSC and  IOSS.    The  courses  offered  by  the  JOSC  and  IOSS  provide  a  broader  perspective  of OPSEC  at  the  joint  and  interagency  level  while  Air  Force  OPSEC  training  is  oriented specifically to an Air Force audience.   26  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 Chapter 6 ASSESSMENTS 6.1.  General: 6.1.1.  Assessments  are  performed  to  achieve  two  specific  purposes:    To  ensure  required policies and procedures  are in  place to  protect  critical  information  and to gauge the overall effectiveness of countermeasures (See Table 6.1 for OPSEC assessment types). Air to Force provides 6.1.2.  The OPSEC PMs/SMO/SMNCOs/Coordinators  and  planners  to  obtain  information  and  data  to  perform risk analysis.  These tools assist in assessing the level of exposure of critical information and operational  indicators  to  adversary  observation,  surveillance,  and  intelligence  sensors.  OPSEC planners, PMs and Coordinators use assessment results within the risk management process to determine countermeasures which can mitigate or negate risk to operations. several assist tools 6.1.3.  Assessment  of  program  effectiveness  is  accomplished  through  the  development  of MOP and MOE.  MOP are developed to measure how well an activity is performed via the execution  of  countermeasures.    MOE  measure  how  well  an  activity  achieved  its  intended effect.    Any  deficiencies  or  best  practices  identified  are  documented  in  lessons  learned  and TIPs.    Inspector  General  (IG)  inspections  are  also  used  to  assess  organization  compliance, operational readiness, and nuclear surety.  Submit TIPs IAW AFI 11-260. 6.1.4.  OPSEC PMs, SMO/SMNCO and Coordinators will utilize the OPSEC risk assessment tool OSCAR to accomplish annual assessments and program reviews. 6.1.5.  For  assistance in  preparing for inspections and  assessments, utilize the OPSEC  Core Capabilities  Checklists  provided  at  the  below  link  to  the  Air  Force  Inspection  Agency’s (AFIA)  web  site.    The  AFIA  checklists  are  divided  into  functional  levels  (wing,  unit  and AOC) and provide the basics for maintaining your OPSEC program.  MAJCOM and AF IG teams inspections.  https://webapps.afrc.af.mil/afia/SearchChecklist.aspx?Command=AFIA&Type=CI&State=live&Dir=A3 . conducting checklists utilize when these will 6.1.6.  Any  request  for  external  assessments  must  be  made  through  your  respective  HHQ OPSEC PMs. 6.1.7.  MAJCOM OPSEC PMs are the focal point for requesting and scheduling all external assessments and setting all priorities between command organizations. 6.2.  Annual OPSEC Program Review: 6.2.1.  The Annual OPSEC program review is a continual processes that involve combining data collected from MOP, MOE, exercise after action reports, lessons learned, nuclear surety, operational readiness/compliance inspections, and annually conducted self-assessments/self-inspections.  Annual  program  reviews will be accomplished utilizing OSCAR and report to the  HHQ  OPSEC  PM.      This  has  been  assigned  Report  Control  Symbol  (RCS)  DD-INTEL(A) 2228. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   27  6.2.2.  OPSEC PMs, SMO/SMNCOs, and Coordinators will conduct annual program reviews to  ensure  the  health  of  their  program,  evaluate  compliance  with  applicable  policies  and  to identify short-falls and vulnerabilities. 6.2.3.  Annual  OPSEC  Program  Reviews  will  provide  information  relating  to  the  following areas: 6.2.3.1.  Executive Summary:    Full-time OPSEC  PM appointed, budget  plan developed, level of importance within the organization. 6.2.3.2.  OPSEC  Initiatives/Projects/Successes:  How is the commander making OPSEC a priority? (Policy and guidance, social networking site reviews, etc.) 6.2.3.3.  OPSEC  Training  and Awareness:   Has the commander  assigned  a fully trained SMO/SMNCO to the SMO/SMNCO position?  How is OPSEC awareness education and training conducted in the organization? (Commander’s call, unit newsletter, incorporating OPSEC into exercises). 6.2.3.4.  OPSEC in Operational Planning:  How has the commander incorporated OPSEC into the unit’s operational plans? (Implementing OPSEC measures, unique tools used to incorporate OPSEC, integration efforts) 6.2.3.5.  Assessment/Surveys:    Does  the  assigned  OPSEC  PMs  have  an  established OSCAR account?  Total number of assessments and surveys accomplished to determine the overall effectiveness of the unit’s OPSEC program? 6.2.4.  At  MAJCOM-level,  this  report  will  be  signed  by  the  Director  responsible  for  the MAJCOM’s  OPSEC  program  or  higher-level  authority.    At  wing-level  and  below  the commander or their designated representative will sign it. 6.3.  Staff Assistance Visit (SAV): 6.3.1.  SAVs  may  be  conducted  as  needed  by  HHQ  OPSEC  PMs,  SMOs  or  other organization  SMEs  to  assist  organizations  in  repairing  dormant,  non-compliant,  deficient programs  or  for  any  other  reason  deemed  necessary  by  the  commander.    The  organization will request such assistance through their respective chain-of-command and will fund travel.  SAVs  check  for  program  compliance  (i.e.,  Special  Interest  Items,  Air  Force  Instructions, MAJCOM  policies,  etc.),  identify  and  resolve  shortfalls,  and  provide  guidance  to  OPSEC PMs, SMOs, and Coordinators as required. 6.4.  Survey: 6.4.1.  An OPSEC survey is the application of the OPSEC methodology by a team of subject matter  experts  to  conduct  a  detailed  analysis  of  all  activities  associated  with  a  specific organization,  operation,  activity,  exercise,  or  support  function  by  employing  the  known collection  capabilities  of  potential  adversaries.    The  purpose  of  an  OPSEC  survey  is  to determine  if  OPSEC  countermeasures  are  effectively  mitigating  identified  threats  and vulnerabilities. 6.4.1.1.  The survey requires a team of experts to look at an activity from an adversary’s perspective  to  determine  if  critical  information  may  be  disclosed  through  normal operations  and  functions,  to  identify  vulnerabilities,  and  propose  countermeasures  to mitigate them.   28  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 6.4.1.2.  Survey  team  members  attempt  to  use  the  collection  techniques  and  tools  of known  adversaries.    Commanders/directors  are  encouraged  to  use  OPSEC  support capabilities (reference Paragraph 6.6) to assist in conducting surveys, if available. 6.5.  Web Content Vulnerability Analysis: 6.5.1.  Web  content  vulnerability  analysis  is  a  formal,  structured  process  of  evaluating information  posted  on  organizational  public  and  private  web  sites.    This  analysis complements  each  organization’s  requirement  to  have  processes  in  place  ensuring  all information  posted  to  publicly  accessible  web  sites  are  reviewed  and  approved  prior  to posting. 6.5.2.  Organizations  will  conduct  web  content  vulnerability  analysis  of  content  on  their organization’s  public  and  private  web  sites  for  its  sensitivity  (i.e.,  critical  information,  For Official  Use  Only,  or  other  controlled  unclassified  information  categories)  or  sensitivity  in aggregate  to  determine  potential  vulnerabilities  by  adversary  exploitation.    Prior  to conducting a web content vulnerability analysis, follow these guidelines: 6.5.2.1.  Ensure  a  legal  review  is  conducted  by  the  Judge  Advocate  (JA)  of  your  web vulnerability  analysis  processes  prior  to  conducting  assessments  of  information  on  your organizational public and private web sites. 6.5.2.2.  Ensure automated key word searching software (i.e. web crawlers) are approved for use by the local Systems Integration organization prior to utilization. 6.5.2.3.  If using automated software to retrieve information  from  web sites, ensure it is used only to assess the owning organizations public and private web sites. 6.5.2.4.  Develop  strict  procedures  regarding  who  can  conduct  assessments,  when  the assessments will be conducted, what will be done with the information retrieved, who can view the information, and how long the information will be maintained on file. 6.5.2.5.  Manage  and  dispose  of  information  collected  and  analyzed  in  accordance  with AFMAN  33-363,  Management  and  Records  and  The  AF  Records  Disposition  Schedule (AFRIMS). 6.6.  Support Capabilities: 6.6.1.  Telecommunication Monitoring Assessment Program (TMAP) involves the collection and  analysis  of  information  transmitted  via  unsecured  and  unprotected  communications systems  (email,  radio,  telephone,  and  internet-based  capabilities)  to  determine  if  these systems are being used to transmit critical, sensitive or classified information.  TMAP helps in  evaluating  an  organization’s  OPSEC  posture  and  determining  the  amounts  and  types  of information  available  to  adversary  collection  entities.    TMAP  is  accomplished  only  within certain legal parameters and may only be performed by authorized personnel.  See AFI 10-712, Telecommunication Monitoring Assessment Program (TMAP) for further guidance. 6.6.2.  Information  Operations  Mobile  Training  Teams  (IO  MTT)  provide  a  three-phased event conducted by the 57th and 177th Information Aggressor Squadrons (57/177 IAS) where they  assess  an  organization's  network  security,  physical  security,  and  counter-HUMINT capabilities.    The  first  phase  is  executed  remotely  through  dot-com  capabilities  and  the collection and exploitation of open source information; the second phase is accomplished at the installation itself and finally through replication of the attack, the 57/177 IAS trains the AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   29  information owners and base personnel on the threat to USAF critical information and their responsibilities  of  securing  it.    IO  MTT  identify  operation  vulnerabilities,  operational impacts,  and  exercise  threat  response  procedures.    OPSEC  PM/SMO/Coordinators  use information identified by the IO MTT to conduct the OPSEC process. 6.6.3.  HUMINT Vulnerability Assessments (HVA) are used to assess the types and amount of information being exposed to potential HUMINT collection with respect to your missions. 6.6.3.1.  Results of these collection capabilities identify the possible level of exposure of critical information and operational indicators to adversary observation, surveillance, and intelligence  sensors.    Once  analyzed,  the  information  assists  in  the  performance  of  risk assessments  for  blue  forces  to  develop  measures  to  counter  the  threat  based  on vulnerabilities identified. 6.6.4.  OSCAR is a web-based tool developed to provide a standardized process to assist the OPSEC  community  with  assessing  and  quantifying  risk  to  critical  information  allowing decision  makers  to  make  informed  decisions  on  what  countermeasures  to  implement  to reduce  the  organization’s  overall  risk  and  vulnerabilities.    OSCAR  provides  posture, vulnerabilities  and  risk  level  status,  which  can  provide  assistance  in  developing  plans  and management  reports.    It  provides  a  platform  for  planners  to  test  remediation  options  and scenarios and provides an expert knowledge base to assist in threat assessments.  All OPSEC program  managers  are  required  to  establish  an  OSCAR  account.    OSCAR  accounts  can  be requested link: https://register.dtic.smil.mil/wobin/WebObjects/RegLite?SiteID=OSCAR on SIPR. following the by going to 6.6.5.  Organizations  will  request  support  through  their  SMO  or  OPSEC  PM  to  their respective MAJCOM OPSEC PM.  MAJCOM OPSEC PMs  will  submit TMAP  requests to 624 OC/CPD at 624OC/CPD@lackland.af.smil.mil; IO MTT request are submitted to  HQ ACC/A3I at acc.xoz.iwd@langley.af.mil and HVA requests are submitted IAW procedures of your local AFOSI detachment.             30  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 Table 6.1.  OPSEC Assessment Types and Support Capabilities Assessment Type Purpose Methodology Frequency  Request Reporting IO MTT OPSEC Survey OSCAR Program reviews Assess and identify operations vulnerabilities, operational impacts, and exercise threat response procedures. Determine if OPSEC countermeasures are effectively mitigating identified threats and vulnerabilities. Web-based tool that provides a standardized process to assist in assessing and quantifying risk to critical information  -Program health -Policy compliance -Shortfalls SAV - Policy compliance - Shortfalls - Provide guidance Procedures Wing or installation CC requests through MAJCOM OPSEC PM N/A  (CC may request other OPSEC support capabilities to assist if available) N/A Red team simulates threats to identify vulnerabilities, operational impacts, and exercise threat response procedures As requested or required At least every three years At least Annually The survey team,  from an adversarial perspective, identifies information disclosed through normal operations and functions OPSEC PMs/SMOs/Coordinators utilize to assist in evaluating risk to mission Annual N/A Out-brief and report to wing and/or installation CC Out-brief and report to organization CC OPSEC PM/SMO/coordinator reports to organization CC and up channel to HHQ PM when required (i.e., annual program reviews) OPSEC PM/SMO/ coordinator reports to organization CC for signature and up channel to HHQ PM OPSEC PMs, SMOs and Coordinators evaluate the health of OPSEC programs, evaluate compliance with applicable policies and identify  vulnerabilities OPSEC PMs/SMOs assess subordinate organizations N/A As requested or required Report to subordinate organization CC and OPSEC PM/SMO/ coordinator TMAP ID potential vulnerabilities Collect and analyze communications As requested or required Organization CC requests through HHQ OPSEC PM Report to requesting organization AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   31  Chapter 7 AIR FORCE OPSEC ANNUAL AWARDS PROGRAM 7.1.  General: 7.1.1.  The  annual  Air  Force  OPSEC  Awards  program  provides  recognition  of  Air  Force OPSEC  professionals  and  is  a  priority  for  the  Air  Force  OPSEC  program.    This  awards program runs concurrently on a fiscal year basis with the National OPSEC Awards program conducted  by  the  IOSS.    Only  AF  OPSEC  awards  submitted  by  the  Air  Force  OPSEC  PM will be considered by the IOSS for the National OPSEC Awards. 7.1.2.  Air  Force  organizations  wishing  to  compete  for  AF  OPSEC  annual  awards  must submit  nominations  through  their  respective  MAJCOMs  to  reach  AF/A3Z-CI,  NLT  31  Oct each year. 7.1.3.  The  Air  Force  does  not  award  an  AF-level  award  in  the  multimedia  area.    Any  Air Force  organization  wishing  to  compete  for  the  National  OPSEC  Multimedia  Achievement Awards  must  submit  nominations  through  their  respective  MAJCOM  to  reach  AF/A3Z-CI, NLT  15  November  to  meet  the  IOSS  suspense.    Go  to  http://www.ioss.gov  for  further descriptions of the awards and nomination criteria. 7.1.4.  Requirements  for  AF  OPSEC  awards  are  listed  in  AFI  36-2807,  Chapter  23, Headquarters  United  States  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  Operations,  Plans  and Requirements Annual Awards Program.   32  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 Chapter 8 OPSEC REQUIREMENTS WITHIN CONTRACTS 8.1.  General: 8.1.1.  Contractors  for  defense  systems  acquisition  programs  as  well  as  other  types  of  Air Force contracts will practice OPSEC to protect critical information for specific government contracts and subcontracts. 8.1.2.  It is the responsibility of the organization to determine what measures are essential to protect  critical  and  sensitive  information  for  specified  contracts.    Organizations  should identify OPSEC measures in their requirements documents and ensure they are identified in resulting  solicitations  and  contracts.    The  organization  is  responsible  for  ensuring  the appropriate critical program information; OPSEC measures and costs are billed and tracked as a separate line item in all contracts. 8.2.  Guidance and procedures: 8.2.1.  Organizations will consider OPSEC for all contractual requirements.  They must first determine whether there is any form of critical or sensitive information or activities involved in the contract.  It is the organization’s responsibility to inform the contracting officer when a determination has been made that there are no OPSEC requirements for the contract. 8.2.2.  If  there  are  OPSEC  requirements,  the  organization  is  responsible  for  conducting  an OPSEC  review  of  the  Statement  of  Work  (SOW)  or  Performance  Work  Statement  (PWS) prior  to  the  time the  contracting  officer  publicizes  the  SOW  or  PWS.    The  SOW/PWS  is  a publicly  released  document  that  can  reveal  critical  information  or  indicators  of  critical information.    It  is  critical  that  the  organization  OPSEC  PM  or  SMO  identify  OPSEC requirements in the scope of work. 8.2.3.  The  organization  will  specify  OPSEC  requirements  for  classified  contracts  on  DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification.  This form defines  classification,  regarding,  downgrading,  declassification,  and  OPSEC  specifications for  a  contract.    Though  the  DD  Form  254  applies  to  classified  contracts,  and  classified subcontracts, it may also be used for unclassified contracts to specify OPSEC requirements.  For unclassified contracts, if the DD Form 254 is not used, the organization will define the specific OPSEC requirements in the contract and the SOW/PWS. 8.2.4.  The  organization’s  designated  representative  is  responsible  for  preparation  of  the prime  contract’s  DD  Form  254.    Based  on  the  classification  guidance  or  OPSEC requirements in the prime contract, the prime contractor is responsible for preparation of DD Forms 254 for any subcontracts.  This should be done in coordination with the organization’s SMO or OPSEC PM and security manager. 8.2.5.  The  organization  will  state  OPSEC  requirements  on  DD  Form  254,  contracts  and SOW/PWSs with  sufficient detail to ensure complete contractor understanding of the exact OPSEC provisions or measures required by the organization.  If the OPSEC block is checked on the DD Form 254, the organization shall: AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   33  8.2.5.1.  Task  the  contractor  to  develop  an  OPSEC  program  plan  to  address  how  the contractor  plans  to  protect  critical  and  sensitive  contracted  information,  and  upon organization acceptance, implement the OPSEC program plan. 8.2.5.2.  Provide  OPSEC  guidance  for  the  contractors  to  use  in  developing  their  own OPSEC plan. 8.2.6.  The  organization  will  determine  OPSEC  requirements  when  the  contract  involves sensitive  information.    When  it  does,  the  organization  will  ensure  that  the  contract  and SOW/PWS  include  OPSEC  requirements,  which  must  include  establishing  an  OPSEC training program to protect the organization’s critical information. 8.2.7.  For  a  contractor  to  effectively  comply  with  OPSEC  provisions  of  the  contract,  the organization must provide the following guidance: 8.2.7.1.  Organization’s critical information. 8.2.7.2.  Adversaries’  collection  threat  information  as  it  applies  to  the  organization’s mission and the contract. 8.2.7.3.  Operations  security  guidance  (at  a  minimum,  the  organization  will  provide  a copy of this instruction). 8.2.7.4.  Specific OPSEC measures the organization requires (as appropriate).  HERBERT J. CARLISLE  Lt Gen, USAF DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements   34  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DODI 5200.39, Critical Program Information Within the Department of Defense, 16 July 2008 DODD 5205.02, DOD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, 6 March 2006 DODM 5205.02-M, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program Manual, 3 November 2008 JP 3-13.3, Joint Doctrine for Operations Security, 29 June 2006 JP 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 13 June 2007 CJCSI 3213.01B, Joint Operations Security, 27 January 2007 AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, 6 September 2006 AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 April 2009  AFPD 90-2, Inspector General—The Inspection System, 26 April 2006 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008  AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercise and After-Action Reporting Program, 12 July 2002 AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006 AFI 10-704, Military Deception Program, 30 August 2005 AFI 10-712, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP), May 2011 AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, 12 December 2003 AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005 AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 24 Jan 2005 AFI 63-10, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009 AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005 AFI 71-101, Vol 4, Counterintelligence, 1 August 2000 AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 22 November 2004 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification Abbreviations and Acronyms AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFSPOB—Air Force Security Policy and Oversight Board AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive ANG—Air National Guard AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   35  AOC—Air and Space Operations Center CCD—Camouflage, Concealment, and Deception CIL—Critical Information List CONPLAN—Contingency Plan CPI—Critical Program Information CT—Continuation Training DISO—Deception in Support of OPSEC DOD—Department of Defense DODD—Department of Defense Directive DRU—Direct Reporting Unit EXPLAN—Exercise Plan FOA—Field Operating Agency FSA—Functional Solutions Analysis FUNCPLAN—Functional Plan HHQ—Higher Headquarters HUMINT—Human Intelligence HVA—HUMINT Vulnerability Assessments IFO—Influence Operations IG—Inspector General IO—Information Operation IOSS—Interagency OPSEC Support Staff IQT—Initial Qualification Training MAF—Mobility Air Forces MAJCOM—Major Command MILDEC—Military Deception MOA—Memorandum of Agreement MOE—Measures of Effectiveness MOP—Measures of Performance MQT—Mission Qualification Training MRT—Mission Readiness Qualification MSEL—Master Scenario Events Listing OPLANS—Operational Plans   36  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 OPORDS—Operation Orders OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OPSEC—Operations Security OSCAR—Operations Security Collaboration ARchitecture PA—Public Affairs PM—Program Manager MISO—Military Information Support Operations RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation SAV—Staff Assistance Visit SEI—Special Experience Identifier SM—Signature management SME—Subject Matter Expert SMO—Signature Management Officer SMWG—- Signature Management Working Group SOW—Statement of Work TIP—Tactics Improvement Proposal TMAP—-Telecommunication Monitoring and Assessment Program TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures Terms Acceptable  Level  of  Risk—An  authority's  determination  of  the  level  of  potential  harm  to  an operation,  program,  or  activity  due  to  the  loss  of  information  that  the  authority  is  willing  to accept. Acquisition Program—A directed, funded effort that is designed to provide a new, improved, or continuing material, weapons system, information system, or service capability in response to a validated operational need. Adversary—An  individual,  group,  organization  or  government  that  must  be  denied  critical information.  Synonymous with competitor/enemy. Adversary  Collection  Methodology—Any  resource  and  method  available  to  and  used  by  an adversary  for  the  collection  and  exploitation  of  sensitive/critical  information  or  indicators thereof. Base  Profiling—Defining  the  local  operating  environment  and  capture  process  points  that present key signatures and profiles with critical information value.  This process is the deliberate effort  to  identify  functional  areas  and  the  observables  they  produce  to  contribute  to  the  overall signature of day-to-day activities and operational trends. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   37  Continuation  Training—Additional  advanced  training  exceeding  the  minimum  upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present or future duty assignments. Counterintelligence—Information  gathered  and  activities  conducted to  protect  against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of foreign governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations, foreign persons, or international terrorist activities. Countermeasures—Anything,  which  effectively  negates  or  mitigates  an  adversary's  ability  to exploit vulnerabilities. Critical  Information—Specific facts about friendly intentions, capabilities, or activities vitally needed by  adversaries for them to  plan  and act  effectively to  guarantee  failure or unacceptable consequences for friendly mission accomplishment. Critical  Information  List—Those  areas,  activities,  functions,  or  other  matters  that  a  facility/ organization considers most important to protect from adversaries. Critical  Program  Information—Elements  or  components  of  an  research,  development  and acquisition (RDA) program that, if compromised, could cause significant degradation in mission effectiveness;  shorten  the  expected  combat-effective  life  of  the  system;  reduce  technological advantage; significantly alter program direction; or enable an adversary to defeat, counter, copy, or  reverse  engineer  the  technology  or  capability.    Includes  information  about  applications, capabilities,  processes,  and  end-items;  information  about  elements  or  components  critical  to  a military  system  or  network  mission  effectiveness;  and  technology  that  would  reduce  the  U.S. technological advantage if it came under foreign control. Deception  in  Support  of  Operations  Security  (DISO)—A  military  deception  activity  that protects  friendly  operations,  personnel,  programs,  equipment,  and  other  assets  from  foreign intelligence security services (FISS) collection. Human  Intelligence  monitoring  (HUMINT)—A  category  of  intelligence  derived  from information collected and provided by human sources. Indicator—  Data  derived  from  friendly  detectable  actions  and  open-source  information  that adversaries  can  interpret  and  piece  together  to  reach  conclusions  or  estimates  of  critical  or classified information concerning friendly intentions, capabilities, or activities. Influence Operations— The employment of capabilities to affect behaviors, protect operations, communicate  commander’s  intent,  and  project  accurate  information  to  achieve  desired  effects across the cognitive domain.  These effects should result in differing behavior or a change in the adversary decision cycle, which aligns with the commander’s objective. Information  Operations—Actions  taken  to  affect  adversary  information  and  information systems while defending one's own information and information systems. Integrated  Control  Enablers—Critical  capabilities  required  to  execute  successful  air,  space, and  information  operations  and  produce  integrated  effects  for  the  joint  fight.    Includes intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance,  network  operations,  predictive  battlespace awareness and precision navigation and timing. Measures  of Effectiveness  (MOE)—Independent qualitative or quantitative measures assigned to an intended effect (direct or indirect) against which the effect’s achievement is assessed.  At   38  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 the  direct  effect  level,  MOEs  answer  such  questions  as,  ―was  the  intended  direct  effect  of  the mission  e.g.,  target  destruction,  degradation  (to  a  defined  point),  or  delay  (for  a  given  time) created?‖  At  the  indirect  level,  they  may  answer  things  like,  ―has  the  enemy  IADS  been degraded sufficiently to allow unimpeded air operations above 15,000 feet?‖ (AFDD 2) Measures of Performance (MOP)—Objective or quantitative measures assigned to the actions and  against  which  the  action’s  accomplishment,  in  operations  or  mission  terms,  is  assessed.  MOPs  answer  questions  like,  ―were  the  weapons  released  as  intended  on  the  planned  target?‖ (AFDD 2) Operations  Security  (OPSEC)—OPSEC is a process of identifying, analyzing and controlling critical  information  indicating  friendly  actions  associated  with  military  operations  and  other activities  to:  Identify  those  actions  that  can  be  observed  by  adversary  intelligence  systems; Determine  what  specific  indications  could  be  collected,  analyzed  and  interpreted  to  derive critical  information  in  time  to  be  useful  to  adversaries;  Select  and  execute  measures  that eliminate  or  reduce  to  an  acceptable  level  the  vulnerabilities  of  friendly  actions  to  adversary exploitation. OPSEC Assessment— An evaluative process, conducted annually of an organization, operation, activity, exercise, or support function to determine if sufficient  protection measures are in place to protect critical information.  An OPSEC program review may include self-generated program  reviews, Inspector General inspections, or higher headquarters reviews that specifically address OPSEC. OPSEC  Compromise—The  disclosure  of  critical  information  or  sensitive  information  which has been identified by the information owner (commander/director) and any higher headquarters that  jeopardizes  the  unit’s  ability  to  execute  its  mission  or  to  adequately  protect  its  personnel and/or equipment.  Critical or sensitive information that has been compromised and is available in open sources and the public domain should not be highlighted or referenced publicly outside of  intra-governmental  or  authorized  official  communications  because  these  actions  provide further unnecessary exposure of the compromised information. OPSEC  Coordinator—Acts  as  an  interface  to  direct  and  manage  all  relevant  OPSEC  matters below the wing-level and reports to the SMO or OPSEC PM. OPSEC  Indicator—Friendly  detectable  actions  and  open-source  information  that  can  be interpreted or pieced together by an adversary to derive critical information. OPSEC  Measure—Methods  and  means  to  gain  and  maintain  essential  secrecy  about  critical information. OPSEC  Program  Manager—Focal  point  for  all  OPSEC  related  matters  at  an  organization above the squadron level that is not a wing.  Ensures OPSEC requirements are in compliance as directed and reviews organizational plans to ensure OPSEC is appropriately considered. OPSEC  Planner—An individual who has been formally trained in the planning and execution of OPSEC. OPSEC  Survey— An OPSEC survey is the application of the OPSEC methodology by a team of subject matter experts to conduct a detailed analysis of all activities associated with a specific organization,  operation,  activity,  exercise,  or  support  function  by  employing  the  known collection capabilities of potential adversaries. AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011   39  OPSEC  Vulnerability—A  condition  in  which  friendly  actions  provide  OPSEC  indicators  that may be obtained and accurately evaluated by an adversary in time to prove a basis for effective adversary decision making. Risk—A  measure  of  the  potential  degree  to  which  protected  information  is  subject  to  loss through adversary exploitation. Risk  Analysis—A  method  by  which  individual  vulnerabilities  are  compared  to  perceived  or actual  security  threat  scenarios  in  order  to  determine  the  likelihood  of  compromise  of  critical information. Risk  Assessment—A  process  of  evaluating  the  risks  to  information  based  on  susceptibility  to intelligence collection and the anticipated severity of loss. Sensitive  Information— Unclassified information  requiring special protection from disclosure that  could  cause  compromise  or  threat  to  our  national  security,  an  Air  Force  organization, activity, military member, AF civilian, DoD contractor, or family member. Signature—Observable  activities  and  operational  trends  that  reveal  critical  information  to adversary intelligence collection. Signature  Management  (SM)—the  active  defense  or  exploitation  of  operational  profiles resident  at  a  given  military  installation.    Defense  of  operational  profiles  is  accomplished  by implementing  protective  SM  measures  to  deny  adversary  collection  of  critical  information.  Exploitation  of  operational  profiles  is  accomplished  by  using  Deception  in  Support  of  OPSEC (DISO) to protect critical information. Signature  Management  Officer/Noncommissioned  Officer  (SMO/SMNCO)—  Focal  point for  all  SM  related  matters  at  the  wing  or  installation  level.    Ensures  tactical  level  OPSEC  and MILDEC requirements are in compliance as directed and reviews wing or installation level plans to  ensure  OPSEC  and  MILDEC  are  appropriately  considered  to  actively  defend  or  exploit operational profiles resident at a given military installation. Threat—the  capability  of  an  adversary  coupled  with  his  intentions  to  undertake  any  actions detrimental to the success of program activities or operations. Threat  Assessment—an  evaluation  of  the  intelligence  collection  threat  to  a  program  activity, system, or operation. Vulnerability Analysis—In information operations, a systematic examination of an information system or product to determine the adequacy of security measures, identify security deficiencies, provide data from which to predict the effectiveness of proposed security measures, and confirm the  adequacy  of  such  measures  after  implementation.    See  also  information  operations, information system, security, and vulnerability. Vulnerability  Assessment—A  process  that  examines  a  friendly  operation  or  activity  from  the point  of  view  of  an  adversary,  seeking  ways  in  which  the  adversary  might  determine  critical information in time to disrupt or defeat the operation or activity. Web  Vulnerability  Analysis—Process  of  evaluating  information  intended  for  release  outside the control of the organization, including release to the public, i.e., public and private web sites. Working Group—Designated body representing a broad range of line and staff activities within an  organization  that  provides  advice  and  support  to  leadership  and  all  elements  of  the   40  AFI10-701  8 JUNE 2011 organization.  (This can be an OPSEC, SM, threat, or public affairs working group that addresses OPSEC concerns)  