BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 17-2NAS VOLUME 1 10 FEBRUARY 2017 Cyberspace NETWORK ATTACK SYSTEM (NAS) TRAINING  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A3CO/A6CO   Certified by: AF/A3C/A6C  (Brig Gen Kennedy) Pages: 25     This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  (AF)  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  17-2,  Cyberspace Operations, and  Air Force  Instruction (AFI) 17-202V1, Cybercrew Training.   It  establishes the minimum  AF  standards  for  training  and  qualifying/certifying  personnel  for  performing  crew duties  on  the  Network  Attack  System  (NAS)  weapon  system.    This  publication  applies  to  all military and civilian AF personnel, members of the AF Reserve Command (AFRC), Air National Guard  (ANG),  third-party  governmental  employee  and  contractor  support  personnel  in accordance  with  appropriate  provisions  contained  in  memoranda  support  agreements  and  AF contracts. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    This  instruction  requires  collecting  and  maintaining  information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).  System of Records Notices F036 AF PC C,  Military  Personnel  Records  System,  and  OPM/GOVT-1,  General  Personnel  Records,  apply. When collecting and maintaining information protect it by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10  U.S.C.  8013.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  AF  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  AF  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS) located in the AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Units may supplement this through  Headquarters  (HQ) AFSPC/A2/3/6T  prior  to  publication.    Process  supplements  as  shown  in  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management.  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  supplements  will  be   All  supplements  will  be  coordinated instruction. 2 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 coordinated with AF A3C/A6C. Guidance provided in weapon system-specific Instructions will contain  specific  training  requirements  unique  to  individual  and  crew  positions.  Send recommended  changes  or  comments  to  HQ  USAF/A3C/A6C,  1480  Air  Force  Pentagon, Washington,  DC  20330-1480, through  appropriate  channels,  using  AF  Form  847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.  AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 3 Chapter 1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1.1.  General.  This  instruction  prescribes  basic  policy  and  guidance  for  training  NAS  crew members according to AFI 17-202 Volume 1, Cybercrew Training. The overall objective of the NAS training program is to develop and maintain a high state of readiness for the immediate and effective employment of the system across a full range of military options. Mission readiness and effective employment are achieved through the development and mastery of core competencies for NAS crew members. 1.2.  References, Abbreviations, Acronyms and Terms. See Attachment 1. 1.2.1.  For  the  purposes  of  this  instruction,  “certification”  denotes  a  commander’s  action, whereas qualification denotes a formal Stan/Eval evaluation. 1.2.2.  Key words explained. 1.2.2.1.  “Will” or “shall” indicates a mandatory requirement. 1.2.2.2.  “Should” indicates a preferred, but not mandatory, method of accomplishment. 1.2.2.3.  “May” indicates an acceptable or suggested means of accomplishment. 1.2.2.4.  “Note”  indicates  operating  procedures,  techniques,  etc.  which  are  considered essential to emphasize. 1.2.2.5.  “Normally” indicates under normal or usual conditions; as a rule. 1.3.  Responsibilities. 1.3.1.  Squadrons.  The  Squadron  (SQ)/CCs  training  priority  will  be  to  train  all  designated crew members to Combat Mission Ready (CMR).  See paragraph 1.5.6 for CMR definitions and requirements. Squadron supervision will: 1.3.1.1.  Ensure the Squadron Training Manager (SQ/DOT) is maintaining training forms and documents in Patriot Excalibur (or other suitable system) for all squadron personnel and personnel attached to the squadron for cyberspace operations (T-3). 1.3.1.2.  Oversee  the  implementation  of  a  crew  training  documentation  program  for  all unit-level  personnel  to  ensure  individual  assigned  and  attached  crew  members  are maintaining currencies, proficiencies, and requirements. (T-3) 1.4.  Processing Changes.  Process changes using the AF Form 847, in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, through local and MAJCOM training channels to USAF/A3C/A6C for approval. (T-3) 1.5.  Training.  Crew  training  is  designed  to  progress  a  crew  member  from  IQT,  or Requalification  Training  (RQT),  to  Mission  Qualification  Training  (MQT)  and  finally  to Continuation Training (CT). Upgrade Training is an additional training requirement to the NAS weapon system. (T-3) 1.5.1.  Initial Qualification Training (IQT). Basic weapon-system training designed to cover system  specific  and/or  positional  specific  training.  IQT  is  a  minimum  requirement  for 4 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 entering MQT. IQT will be conducted during formal syllabus courses at the Formal Training Unit (FTU).  See Chapter 2. 1.5.2.  Mission  Qualification  Training  (MQT).  Unit-developed  training  program  that upgrades  IQT-complete  crew  members  to  CMR  status  to  accomplish  the  unit  Designated Operational Capability (DOC) statement mission. See Chapter 3. 1.5.3.  Continuation Training (CT). CT consists of two aspects. The first involves training in the  basic  skills  necessary  to  ensure  the  safe  operation  of  the  weapon  system.  The  second consists  of  specific  mission-related  training  required  to  accomplish  the  unit's  assigned missions. 1.5.4.  Requalification  Training  (RQT).  Training  designed  to  provide  the  training  necessary to  requalify  a  crew  member  with  an  expired  qualification  evaluation  or  loss  of  currency exceeding 6 months. 1.5.5.  Ready Cybercrew Program (RCP). RCP is a CT program designed to focus training on capabilities  needed  to  accomplish  a  unit’s  core  tasked  missions,  fulfill  DOC  statement mission  requirements,  and/or  provide  focus  on  mission  sets  as  determined  by  the  SQ/CC. Upon completion of IQT and MQT, crew members will have received training in all the basic mission-sets  of  the  unit.  After  MQT  completion,  crew  members  will  then  be  assigned  to  a CMR manning position within the unit. 1.5.6.  Combat  Mission  Ready  (CMR).  CMR  is  a  status  that  denotes  a  crew  member  has satisfactorily completed IQT and MQT, and maintains certification, currency and proficiency in the command or unit combat mission. 1.5.6.1.  All  Crew  Position  Indicator  (CPI)-1/-2/-A/-Z  designated  positions,  to  include SQ/CC  and  SQ/DO  positions,  should  maintain  CMR  status.  The  Operations  Group (OG)/CC may  designate other CPI-6/B positions not  assigned to  the squadron as CMR. See Attachment 3 for CPI explanation and definitions. 1.5.6.2.  CMR  crew  members  will  maintain  currencies  that  affect  CMR  status, accomplish  all  core  designated  training  (missions  and  events),  and  all  mission  related training. Failure to complete required CMR training or maintain currencies could result in regression to supervised status unless waived by the approval authority. (T-3) 1.5.7.  Basic Mission Capable (BMC). There are no BMC positions associated with the NAS. 1.5.8.  Specialized Training. Specialized training is any special skill(s) necessary to carry out the unit's assigned mission that is not required by every crew member. 1.5.8.1.  Specialized training is  normally accomplished after a  crew member is  assigned CMR status and is normally in addition to CMR requirements. 1.5.8.2.  SQ/CCs will determine and assign crew members that will train for and maintain special mission certification/qualification. (T-3) 1.6.  Training  Concepts  and  Policies.  Units will design training to achieve the highest degree of readiness consistent with safety and resource availability. Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, crew capabilities, and safety. This volume provides training guidelines  and  polices  for  use  with  operational  procedures  specified  in  applicable  operational publications. AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 5 1.6.1.  Design  training  to  achieve  mission  capability  in  squadron-tasked  roles,  maintain proficiency, and enhance mission accomplishment and safety. RCP training missions should emphasize  either  basic  combat  skills,  or  scenarios  that  reflect  procedures  and  operations based on employment plans, location, current intelligence, and opposition capabilities. Use of procedures and actions applicable to mission scenarios is desired. (T-3) 1.7.  Experienced  Crew  Requirements.  NAS  crew  members  are  declared  experienced  on  the weapon system when they achieve the following: 1.7.1.  NAS Crew Commander: 540 hours in the NAS weapon system. (T-3) 1.7.2.  NAS Operations Controller: 540 hours in the NAS weapon system. (T-3) 1.7.3.  NAS Operator: 540 hours in the NAS weapon system. (T-3) 1.8.  RCP Policy and Management. 1.8.1.  The  RCP  training  cycle  is  each  fiscal  year  and  executed  IAW  the  RCP  Tasking Memorandum (RTM). RCP CT status is defined by a total number of RCP missions, broken down into mission types, plus specific qualifications and associated events as determined by higher headquarters (HHQ) guidance and unit commanders. 1.8.2.  The  total  number  of  RCP  missions  is  the  primary  factor  for  maintaining  an individual's  CT  status.  The  breakout  of  mission  types  is  provided  as  a  guideline  to  be followed  as  closely  as  possible  but  minor  variances  are  authorized.  Variations  in  mission types may be used as a basis for regression as directed by the SQ/CC or SQ/DO. (T-3) 1.8.3.  An effective RCP training mission requires accomplishing a tactical mission profile or a building block type mission. Each mission requires successfully  completing a majority of the applicable events, as determined by the SQ/CC or SQ/DO. (T-3) 1.9.  Training Mission Program Development. 1.9.1.  RTM mission and event requirements apply to all NAS crew members as well as those carrying  special  mission  certifications/qualifications.  The  standard  mission  requirements listed in the RTM establish  the minimum  number of missions per training cycle. The RTM takes precedence over this volume and may contain updated requirements, missions, events, or tasks not yet incorporated into the standard NAS mission profile. (T-3) 1.9.2.  Non-effective sorties are logged when a training sortie is planned and started, but 50% of  valid  training  for  that  type  of  mission  is  not  accomplished  due  to  system  malfunction, power failures, etc. Non-effective sorties will be logged and reported appropriately. (T-3) 1.10.  Training Records and Reports. 1.10.1.  Units will maintain crew records for individual training and evaluations IAW: 1.10.1.1.  AFI 17-202V1, Cybercrew Training. 1.10.1.2.  AFI 17-202V2, Cybercrew Standardization & Evaluation. 1.10.1.3.  Any additional HHQ supplement to the above mentioned volumes. 1.10.2.  Track the following information for all crew members (as applicable): 1.10.2.1.  Mission-related  training  (e.g.,  tactics  training,  crew  resource  management training, etc.). (T-3) 6 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 1.10.2.2.  Requirements  and  accomplishment  of  individual  training  or  requalification training. (T-) 1.10.2.3.  Currencies. 1.11.  Crew Utilization Policy. 1.11.1.  Commanders will ensure wing/group crew members (CPI-1/-2/-A/-Z) fill authorized positions IAW UMDs and that crew member status is properly designated (see Attachment 3 for CPI explanation and definitions). The overall objective is  for crew members to  perform mission-related  duties.  Supervisors  may  assign  crew  members  to  valid,  short-term  tasks (escort officer, operational review board (ORB), etc.), but must continually weigh the factors involved, such as level of tasking, proficiency, currency, and experience. Supervisors should limit  non-crew  duties  for  inexperienced  crew  members  in  the  first  year  of  their  initial operational assignment to those related to unit mission activities. (T-3) 1.11.2.  Use evaluators as instructors for any phase of training for which they are qualified to capitalize  on  their  expertise  and  experience.  If  an  evaluator  is  an  individual’s  primary  or recommending instructor, the same evaluator shall not administer the associated evaluation. (T-3) 1.12.  Sortie Allocation and Unit Manpower Guidance. 1.12.1.  In general, inexperienced CPI-1/-2/-A/-Z crew members should receive priority over experienced crew members. Priorities for sortie allocation are as follows: 1.12.1.1.  Operational  Units.  CMR  CPI-1/-2/-A/-Z,  MQT  CPI-1/-2/-A/-Z,  CMR  CPI-6/-8/-B/-D, MQT CPI-6/-8/-B/-D. (T-3) 1.12.2.  Units should provide assigned CPI-6/-8/-B/-D  crew members adequate resources to maintain minimum training requirements. However, CPI-6/-8/-B/-D support will not come at the expense of the squadron’s primary mission. (T-3) 1.12.3.  If attached crew members cannot meet requirements, they must request relief/waiver from the OG/CC. (T-3) 1.12.4.  There  is  no  maximum  sortie  requirement  for  CMR  crew  members.  The  minimum sortie requirement for all crew positions is one (1) sortie every 30 days. (T-3) 1.13.  Training  on  Operational  Missions.  Training  during  operational  missions  will  be  IAW unit Operating Instructions. (T-3) 1.14.  In-Unit Training Time Limitations. 1.14.1.  Comply  with  the  time  limitations  in  unit  Operating  Instructions.  Crew  members entered  in  an  in-unit  training  program  leading  to  qualification  or  requalification  will  be dedicated to that training program on a full-time basis. (T-3) 1.14.2.  DOT will notify the SQ/CC (or designee) in writing before the crew member exceeds training  time  limits.  SQ/CCs  may  extend  listed  training  times  up  to  60  days  provided appropriate documentation is included in the training folder. (T-3) 1.14.2.1.  Include  training  difficulty,  unit  corrective  action  to  resolve  and  prevent recurrence, and estimated completion date. (T-3) AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 7 Table 1.1.  In-Unit Training Time Limitations (Calendar Days). Training Mission Qualification Training Requalification Position Upgrade Crew Commander Operations Controller Operator 60 45 60 90 45 60 60 45 60 1.15.  Periodic and End-of-Cycle Training Reports. 1.15.1.  Periodic Reporting. Squadrons will submit a periodic training report to 67 COG/CC by  the  5th  day  of  every  quarter  during  training  cycle  (if  the  5th  day  falls  on  a weekend/holiday,  then  by  the  next  business  day).  Reports  will  consist  of  a  SQ/CC  memo summarizing  previous  report  results/issues,  current  training  plan  summary  and  significant shortfalls/limiting factors (LIMFACS) affecting training. (T-3) 1.15.2.  End-of-Cycle  Reporting.  Squadrons  will  submit  an  End-of-Cycle  Training  Report NLT  5  October.  Report  all  deviations  from  the  training  requirements  in  this  volume  or  the RTM, after proration at the end of the training cycle. (T-3) 1.15.3.  Reporting  Formats.  Report  formats  and  additional  reporting  requirements  will  be specified in the 67 COG RTM. (T-3) 1.16.  Waiver Authority. 1.16.1.  Waiver authority for all requirements of the RTM is the OG/CC. Additional guidance may be provided in the memo. Unless specifically noted otherwise in the appropriate section, and  also  with  AFSPC/A2/3/6  approval,  the  OG/CC  may  adjust  individual  requirements  in Chapter  4  and  Chapter  5,  on  a  case-by-case  basis,  to  accommodate  variations  in  crew experience and performance. (T-3) 1.16.2.  Formal School Training and Prerequisites. Any planned exception to a formal course syllabus  (or  prerequisite)  requires  a  syllabus  waiver.  Submit  waiver  request  through AFSPC/A2/3/6T  (or  equivalent)  or  the  waiver  authority  listed  in  the  course  syllabus.  If required  for  units’  designated  mission,  events  waived  or  not  accomplished  at  the  formal school will be accomplished in-unit before assigning CMR status. (T-2) 1.16.3.  In-Unit  Training  Waiver.  AFSPC/A2/3/6T  (or  equivalent)  is  approval/waiver authority  for  in-unit  training  to  include  syllabus  and  prerequisite  waivers.  Before  approval, review  the  appropriate  syllabus  and  consider  availability  of  formal  instruction  and requirements. All in-unit training will utilize formal courseware in accordance with AFI 17-202 Volume 1. AFSPC/A2/3/6T will coordinate with the FTU to arrange courseware delivery to the unit for in-unit training. (T-2) 1.16.4.  Waiver  authority  for  supplemental  guidance  will  be  as  specified  in  the  supplement and approved through higher level coordination authority. (T-2) 1.16.5.  Units  subordinate  to  a  NAF  will  forward  requests  through  the  NAF/A3T  to AFSPC/A2/3/6T..  AFSPC/A2/3/6T  will  coordinate  all  waiver  requests  with  24  AF/A3T.    (T-2) 1.16.6.  Unless specifically stated in the waiver, approval waivers to this volume will be valid until  the  approving  official  cancels  the  waiver  in  writing,  the  waiver  expires,  or  this 8 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 publication is revised to include waived requirements. Otherwise, waivers extending beyond the  end  of  the  annual  training  cycle  must  be  re-submitted  at  the  start  of  each  subsequent training cycle. (T-2) 1.16.7.  Waiver Format. Submit waiver requests using AF Form 679,  Air Force Publication Compliance  Item  Waiver  Request/Approval  through  OG/CC  (or  equivalent)  to  the appropriate MAJCOM OPR. Units will submit waiver requests according to Table 1.2. Place a copy of approved waivers in the individual’s training folder. (T-2) Table 1.2.  Processing Waivers to AFI 17-2.NAS Volume 1. If waiver is requested by: Send waiver request to:  Waiver authority will send approval or disapproval to:  With information copies to:   Active Duty Cyberspace Wing or Group   FTU   USAFWS MAJCOM/A3T OG/CC 24 AF/A3T AFSPC/A2/3/6T OG/CC 24 AF/A3T USAFWS/CO to AFSPC/A2/3/6T  USAFWS/CO 24 AF/A3T AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 9 Chapter 2 INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING 2.1.  General.  This chapter outlines NAS IQT requirements for all crew members. 2.2.  Formal  Training.  NAS  IQT  includes  training  that  will  be  conducted  during  formal syllabus courses at the FTU. 2.3.  Local Training.  When FTU training is not available within a reasonable time period, local IQT  may  be  performed  at  the  unit  IAW  the  provisions  of  this  chapter.  Local  IQT  will  be conducted using appropriate formal training course syllabus and requirements. When local  IQT is  authorized,  the  gaining  unit  assumes  responsibility  for  the  burden  of  providing  this  training. (T-2) 2.3.1.  Requests to conduct local IQT will include the following: 2.3.1.1.  Justification for the local training in lieu of FTU training. (T-2) 2.3.1.2.  Summary of individual's mission related experience, to include dates. (T-2) 2.3.1.3.  Date training will begin and expected completion date. (T-2) 2.3.1.4.  Requested exceptions to formal course syllabus, with rationale. (T-2) 2.4.  Mission-Related  Training.  Mission-related  training  may  be  tailored  to  the  individual's background  and  experience  or  particular  local  conditions.  Current  and  available  reference materials, such as AF Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.NAS, other applicable AFTTP  3-1s  and  3-3s,  unit  guides,  and  other  available  training  material  and  programs,  will  be used as supporting materials to the maximum extent possible. (T-3) 2.5.  Mission Training. 2.5.1.  Mission  sequence  and  prerequisites  will  be  IAW  the  appropriate  formal  course syllabus (unless waived). (T-2) 2.5.2.  Training  will  be  completed  within  the  time  specified  by  the  syllabus.  Failure  to complete  within  the  specified  time  limit  requires  notification  through  channels  to MAJCOM/A3  with  crew  member’s  name,  rank,  reason  for  delay,  planned  actions,  and estimated completion date. (T-2) 2.5.3.  Crew members in IQT will train under the appropriate supervision as annotated in the formal course syllabus until completing the QUAL evaluation. (T-2) 2.5.4.  Formal  course  syllabus  mission  objectives  and  tasks  are  minimum  requirements  for IQT. However, additional training events, based on student proficiency and background, may be incorporated into the IQT program. Additional training due to student non-progression is available  within  the  constraints  of  the  formal  course  syllabus  and  may  be  added  at  SQ/CC discretion. (T-3) 2.6.  IQT for Senior Officers. 2.6.1.  All senior officer training (colonel selects  and above) will be conducted at the FTUs unless waived IAW AFI 17-202V1. (T-2) 10 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 2.6.2.  Senior  officers  must  meet  course  entry  prerequisites  and  will  complete  all  syllabus requirements unless waived IAW AFI 17-202V1. (T-2) 2.6.3.  If  senior  officers  are  trained  at  the  base  to  which  they  are  assigned  they  will  be considered  in  a  formal  training  status  for  the  duration  of  the  course.  Their  duties  will  be turned over to appropriate CDs or CVs until training is completed. Waiver authority for this paragraph is MAJCOM/CC (submitted through MAJCOM/A3). (T-2) AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 11 Chapter 3 MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION TRAINING 3.1.  General.  MQT  is  a  unit-developed  training  program  that  upgrades  IQT-complete  crew members  to  CMR  status  to  accomplish  the  unit  DOC  statement  missions.  Guidance  in  this chapter, which represents the minimum, is provided to assist SQ/CCs in developing their MQT program, which must have OG/CC approval prior to use. Squadrons are allowed to further tailor their  program  for  individual  crew  member,  based  on  current  qualifications  (e.g.,  USAFWS graduate,  Instructor),  certifications  (e.g.,  Mission  Commander  (MC),  Defensive  Counter-Cyber (DCC),  Stan/Eval),  experience,  currency,  documented  performance,  and  formal  training. Squadrons may use applicable portions of MQT to create a recertification program. (T-3) 3.1.1.  MQT will be completed within 60 or 90 calendar days (depending  on crew position) starting from the crew member’s first duty day in the gaining unit. (T-3) If the crew member elects  to  take  leave  prior  to  being  entered  into  MQT,  the  timing  will  begin  after  the termination  of  the  leave.  Training  is  complete  upon  SQ/CC  certification  of  CMR  status (subsequent to the successful completion of the MQT MSN qualification evaluation). Notify SQ/CC either if training exceeds the standard time period or there is a delay beginning MQT (e.g., due to security clearance) that exceeds 30 days. (T-3) 3.2.  Mission-Related Training. 3.2.1.  Units  will  develop  blocks  of  instruction  covering  areas  pertinent  to  the  mission  as determined by the SQ/CC. Training accomplished during IQT may be credited towards this requirement. (T-3) 3.2.2.  Mission-related training may be tailored to the individual's background and experience or  particular  local  conditions.  Current  and  available  reference  materials,  such  as  AFTTP  3-1.NAS,  other  applicable  AFTTP  3-1s  and  3-3s,  unit  guides,  and  other  available  training material and programs, will be used as supporting materials to the maximum extent possible. (T-3) 3.2.3.  Mission-related training will be built to support the mission and concept of operations of  the  individual  squadron;  incorporate  appropriate  portions  of  AFTTP  3-1.NAS  and  other mission-related documents. (T-3) 3.3.  Initial Certification. 3.3.1.  Initial  Certification  of  CMR  crew  position  will  be  completed  within  30  days  after completing MQT IAW AFI 17-2NAS Volume 2 and unit Operating Instructions. (T-3) 3.4.  Mission Training. 3.4.1.  MQT programs should use profiles typical of squadron missions. (T-3) 3.4.2.  Supervision.  A  SQ  instructor  is  required  for  all  training  missions  unless  specified otherwise. (T-3) 3.4.3.  Minimum  Sortie  Requirements.  The  minimum  sorties  required  in  a  local  MQT program will be IAW the MQT course syllabus (not required if portions of the MQT program are used to recertify crew members). (T-3) 12 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 3.4.4.  Training will be completed within the time specified by the syllabus. (T-2) 3.4.5.  Crew  members  in  MQT  will  train  under  the  appropriate  supervision  as  annotated  in the formal course syllabus until completing the MSN evaluation. (T-3) 3.5.  MQT for Senior Officers. 3.5.1.  All  senior  officer  training  (colonel  selects  and  above)  will  be  conducted  at  the  unit. (T-2) 3.5.2.  Senior  officers  must  meet  course  entry  prerequisites  and  will  complete  all  syllabus requirements unless waived by the MAJCOM/A3. (T-2) 3.5.3.  Senior  officers  will  be  considered  in  a  formal  training  status  for  the  duration  of  the course.    Their  duties  will  be  turned  over  to  appropriate  CDs  or  CVs  until  training  is completed. Waiver authority for this paragraph is the MAJCOM/CC (submitted  through the MAJCOM/A3). (T-2) AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 13 Chapter 4 CONTINUATION TRAINING 4.1.  General.  This  chapter  establishes  the  minimum  crew  member  training  requirements  to maintain  CMR  for  an  assigned  training  status.  The  SQ/CC  will  ensure  each  crew  member receives sufficient training to maintain individual currency and proficiency. (T-3) 4.2.  Crew Status.  All NAS crew members must maintain CMR status. (T-3) 4.2.1.  Combat  Mission  Ready  (CMR).  For  Resource  Readiness,  a  crew  member  who satisfactorily  completed  IQT  and  MQT,  and  maintains  qualification,  certification,  currency and proficiency in the command or unit combat mission. 4.2.2.  Non-Mission  Ready  (NMR).  A  crew  member  that  is  unqualified,  non-current  or incomplete in required continuation training, or not certified to perform the unit mission. 4.2.3.  All  crew  members  will  accomplish  and/or  maintain  RCP  requirements,  for  their respective  status,  and  the  appropriate  events  in  the  RCP  tables  in  this  instruction  and  the RTM.  (T-3) 4.3.  Training  Events/Tables.  Standardized  training  events,  identifiers,  and  descriptions  are available at a higher classification. Units will include unit-specific events to include a description in their local training documentation. (T-3) 4.3.1.  Crediting Event Accomplishment. Credit events accomplished on training, operational missions and satisfactory evaluations or certifications toward RCP requirements and establish a subsequent due date. Use date of successful evaluation as the date of accomplishment for all  mission-related  training  events  that  were  trained  during  a  formal  course.  A  successful evaluation establishes a new current and qualified reference date for all accomplished events. For training during IQT or requalification training, numbers of events accomplished prior to the  evaluation  are  not  credited  to  any  crew  position.  In  all  cases,  numbers  of  events successfully accomplished during the evaluation or certification are credited toward the crew position. (T-3) 4.3.2.  For an unsatisfactory evaluation, do not log CT requirements for those events graded U/Q3 (according to AFI 17-202V2) until re-qualified. (T-3) 4.3.3.  Instructors and evaluators may credit up to 50 percent of their total CT requirements while instructing or evaluating. (T-3) 4.4.  Continuation  Training  Requirements.  Completion and tracking of continuation training is  ultimately  the  responsibility  of  the  individual  crew  member.  Crew  members  should  actively work  with  their  supervisors,  unit  schedulers  and  training  offices  to  ensure  accomplishment  of their  continuation  training  requirements.  Crew  members  attached  to  units  are  responsible  for reporting accomplished training event to their attached unit. (T-3) 4.5.  Mission Training Events.  Crew members will comply with requirements of the RTM for their  respective  position.  Total  sorties  and  events  are  minimums  which  ensure  training  to continually  meet  all  DOC in proration/waiver.  Upon  AFSPC  approval,  the  OG/CC  is  the  waiver  authority  for  all  RCP tasked  requirements  and  may  not  be  reduced  except 14 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 requirements  and  for  all  provisions  in  Chapter  4  and  Chapter  5  of  this  volume.  Failure  to accomplish events in these tables may lead to NMR status. (T-3) 4.6.  Specialized Mission Training.  Training in any special skills (e.g., tactics, weapon system capabilities,  responsibilities,  etc.)  necessary  to  carry  out  the  unit's  assigned  mission  that  is  not required by every crew member. 4.7.  Multiple  Qualification/Currency.  See  AFI  17-202V1,  AFI  17-202V2,  applicable  HHQ guidance, and AFI 17-2NAS V2 for multiple qualifications. 4.8.  Currencies, Recurrency, and Requalification. 4.8.1.  Currency. The RTM defines currency requirements for crew members. Crew members may not instruct, evaluate or perform any event in which they are not qualified and current unless under instructor supervision. Currency may be established or updated by: 4.8.1.1.  Accomplishing  the  event  as  a  qualified  crew  member  provided  member’s currency has not expired. (T-3) 4.8.1.2.  Accomplishing  the  event  as  a  qualified  crew  member  under  supervision  of  a current instructor. (T-3) 4.8.1.3.  Events  satisfactorily  performed  on  any  evaluation  may  be  used  to  establish  or update currency in that event. (T-3) 4.8.2.  If  a  crew  member  loses  a  particular  currency,  thereby  requiring  recurrency,  that mission or event  may not  be performed except  for the purpose of regaining currency. Non-current events must be satisfied before the crew member is considered certified/qualified (as applicable) to perform those events unsupervised. (T-3) 4.9.  Loss  of  Instructor  Status  and  Requalification/Recurrency.  Instructors  may  lose instructor status for the following: 4.9.1.  They become noncurrent in a mission or event. 4.9.1.1.  If  the  SQ/CC  does  not  elect  to  decertify  the  individual  or  if  the  individual becomes  noncurrent  in  missions  or  events  which  do  not  require  removal  from  CMR status, instructor status may be retained, but the instructor will not instruct that mission or event until the required currency is regained. (T-3) 4.9.2.  Instructor  Lack  of  Ability.  Instructors  serve  solely  at  the  discretion  of  the  SQ/CC.  Instructors should exemplify a higher level of performance and present themselves as reliable and authoritative experts in their respective duty positions. Instructors exhibiting substandard performance should be reviewed for suitability of continued instructor duty. Individuals will be removed from duty as instructors if (T-3): 4.9.2.1.  They are awarded a less than fully qualified grade in any area of the evaluation regardless of overall crew position qualification. (T-3) 4.9.2.2.  They fail a qualification. 4.9.2.3.  The  SQ/CC  deems  the  instructor  is  substandard,  ineffective,  or  providing incorrect procedures, techniques, or policy guidance. (T-3) AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 15 4.9.3.  Crew members may regain instructor status by correcting applicable deficiencies and completing the training as specified by the SQ/CC. (T-3) 4.10.  Regression. 4.10.1.  Failure  to  Meet  Lookback.  Only  RCP  training  missions  and  cyberspace  operations sorties  may  be  used  for  lookback.  Crew  lookback  requirements  and  policies  will  be  IAW applicable unit Operating Instructions. (T-3) 4.10.1.1.  Lookback  computations  begin  following  completion  of  MQT.  SQ/CCs  may apply probation rules IAW unit Operating Instructions. (T-3) 4.10.2.  Failed Evaluations. Crew members who fail a periodic evaluation are unqualified and will  regress  to  NMR.  Crew  members  will  remain  NMR  until  successfully  completing required corrective action, re-evaluation, are re-certified by the SQ/CC. (T-3) 4.10.3.  Failure  to  Maintain  Standards.  If  a  qualified  crew  member  demonstrates  lack  of proficiency  or  knowledge,  the  SQ/CC  may  elect  to  regress  the  individual  to  NMR.  These crew  members  will  remain  NMR  until  successful  completion  of  corrective  action  as determined by the SQ/CC, an evaluation if required and are re-certified by the SQ/CC. (T-3) 4.10.4.  End  of  Cycle  Requirements.  Crew  members  who  fail  to  complete  sortie  or  event requirements  by  the  end  of  training  cycle  may  require  additional  training  depending  on  the type and magnitude of the deficiency. In all cases, units will report training shortfalls to the OG/CC. (T-3) 4.11.  Proration of Training. 4.11.1.  Proration of End-of-Cycle Requirements. At the end of the training cycle the SQ/CC may prorate any training requirements precluded by the following events: initial arrival date in  squadron,  emergency  leave,  non-mission  temporary  duties  (TDYs)  (i.e.,  PME)  or exercises, or deployments. Ordinary annual leave will not be considered as non-availability. Other  extenuating  circumstances,  as  determined  by  the  SQ/CC,  that  prevent  crew  from mission duties for more than 15 consecutive days may be considered as non-availability for proration purposes. The following guidelines apply: 4.11.1.1.  Proration will not be used to mask training or planning deficiencies. (T-3) 4.11.1.2.  Proration is based on cumulative days of non-availability for mission duties in the training cycle. Use Table 4.1 to determine the number of months to be prorated based on each period of cumulative non-mission duty calendar days. (T-3) 4.11.1.3.  If  IQT  or  MQT  is  re-accomplished,  a  crew  members  training  cycle  will  start over at a prorated share following completion of IQT/MQT. (T-3) Table 4.1.  Proration Allowance. CUMULATIVE DAYS OF NON-MISSION ACTIVITY  0 – 15 16 – 45  46 – 75  PRORATION ALLOWED (Months) 0 1 2 16 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 76 – 105  106 – 135  136 – 165 166 – 195 196 – 225  226 – 255  256 – 285  286 – 315  316 – 345  Over 345  3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 4.12.  Operational  Missions.  Missions  conducted  during  operational  sorties  count  toward annual RCP requirements. (T-3) 4.13.  Regaining  CMR  Status.  If  CMR  status  is  lost,  re-certification/re-qualification  will  be IAW unit Operating Instructions and at the discretion of the SQ/CC or SQ/DO. (T-3) AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 17 Chapter 5 UPGRADE AND SPECIALIZED MISSION TRAINING 5.1.  General.  This chapter outlines duties and responsibilities for units to upgrade, certify, and maintain  currency/proficiency  for  special  capabilities,  and  certifications/qualifications.  SQ/CCs may  tailor  programs  for  individuals  based  on  previous  experience,  qualifications,  and documented  performance.  These  capabilities  and  certifications/qualifications  are  in  addition  to unit core missions and do not apply to every crew member assigned or attached to the unit. 5.2.  Requirements.  Requirements  for  upgrade  and  special  mission  training  are  listed  in  unit Operating Instructions as well as on documentation at a higher classification level. Additionally, commanders must ensure each candidate has the ability, judgment, technical expertise, skill, and experience when selecting a crew member for upgrade or specialized mission training. (T-3) 5.3.  Instructor  Upgrade.  This  section  establishes  the  minimum  guidelines  for  instructor upgrade. 5.3.1.  Instructor  Responsibilities.  An  AF  instructor  shall  be  a  competent  subject  matter expert  adept  in  the  methodology  of  instruction.  The  instructor  shall  be  proficient  in evaluating,  diagnosing,  and  critiquing  student  performance,  identifying  learning  objectives and difficulties, and prescribing and conducting remedial instruction. The instructor must be able to conduct instruction in all training venues (e.g., classroom, training devices, ops floor, mission execution, etc.) (T-3) 5.3.1.1.  Instructor  Prerequisites.  SQ/CCs  will  consider  ability,  judgment,  technical expertise, skill, and experience when selecting a crew member for instructor upgrade. (T-3) 5.3.1.2.  For  instructor  minimum  requirements,  see  Table  5.2.  All  instructor  candidates will  be  CMR  in  their  unit’s  mission.    USAF  Weapons  School  graduates  are  instructor qualified. (T-3) Table 5.1.  Instructor Upgrade Requirements (T-3). Instructor Tasks/Events to Complete Upgrade Notes 1000 1000 2000 2000 Position CCC-A OC-A CO-A OT-A Notes: 1.  Instructor training must meet all AFI 17-202 V1 and other HHQ guidance requirements. 2.  Award of the “K” prefix will be IAW AF Officer and Enlisted Classification Directories. Instructor Training Course  Instructor Training Course  Instructor Training Course  Instructor Training Course  See Notes 1 & 2 See Notes 1 & 2 See Notes 1 & 2 See Notes 1 & 2 5.3.1.3.  Training.  Instructor  training  should  expand  the  instructor  candidate’s  weapon-system  subject  matter  expertise.  Instructor  training  will  include  methodology  of instruction  and  make  instructor  candidates  proficient  in  evaluating,  diagnosing,  and critiquing  student  performance,  identifying  learning  objectives  and  difficulties,  and prescribing and conducting remedial instruction. The instructor candidate must be able to AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 conduct  instruction  in  all  training  venues  (e.g.,  classroom,  training  devices,  ops  floor, mission execution, etc.). (T-3) 5.3.1.4.  Qualifications  and  Certifications.  All  instructor  candidates  will  demonstrate  to an evaluator their ability to instruct and perform selected tasks and items IAW applicable directives.. They must demonstrate their ability to instruct and perform selected tasks and items according to applicable directives. SQ/CC will certify a new instructor by placing a letter  of  certification  in  the  training  folder  and  indicate  qualifications  on  a  letter  of  Xs forwarded to the 26th Operational Support Squadron (OSS)/OST. (T-3) 18  WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lt Gen, USAF Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 19 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 17-202V1, Cybercrew Training, April 2, 2014 AFI 17-202V2, Cybercrew Standardization and Evaluation Program, October 15, 2014 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFSPC—Air Force Space Command AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures ANG—Air National Guard BCQ—Basic Cyber Qualified BMC—Basic Mission Capable CC—Commander CD—Deputy Commander CMR—Combat Mission Ready CPI—Crew Position Indicator CT—Continuation Training CV—Vice Commander DCC – Defensive Counter—Cyber DO—Director of Operations DOC—Designed Operational Capability DOT—Director of Operational Training/Squadron Training Function FLT—Flight FTU—Formal Training Unit HQ—Headquarters HHQ—Higher Headquarters 20 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 IAW—In Accordance With IQT—Initial Qualification Training LIMFAC—Limiting Factor MAJCOM—Major Command MC—Mission Commander MQT—Mission Qualification Training NAS—Network Attack System NMR – Non—Mission Ready OG—Operations Group OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility ORB—Operational Review Board OSS—Operations Support Squadron RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RCP—Ready Cybercrew Program RTM—RCP Tasking Memorandum RQT—Requalification Training SORTS—Status of Resources and Training SQ—Squadron TDY—Temporary Duty USAF—United States Air Force USAFWS—United States Air Force Weapons School WG— Wing WIC—Weapons Instructor Course Terms Additional  Training—Any  training  recommended  to  remedy  deficiencies  identified  during  an evaluation that must be completed by a specific due date. This training may include self-study or simulator.  Additional  training  must  include  demonstration  of  satisfactory  knowledge  or proficiency  to  examiner,  supervisor  or  instructor  (as  stipulated  in  the  Additional  Training description) to qualify as completed. Attached  Personnel—This  includes  anyone  not  assigned  to  the  unit  but  maintaining qualification through that unit. HAF augmented personnel are an example of attached personnel. Basic  Cyber  Qualified  (BCQ)—A  crew  member  who  has  satisfactorily  completed  IQT.    The crew  member  will  carry  BCQ  only  until  completion  of  MQT.  BCQ  crew  members  will  not perform RCP-tasked events or sorties without instructor crewmembers. AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 21 Basic  Mission  Capable  (BMC)—A  crew  member  who  has  satisfactorily  completed  IQT  and MQT, but is not in fully-certified MR/CMR status. Crew member accomplishes training required to remain familiarized in all and may be qualified and proficient in some of the primary missions of  their  weapon  system  BMC  requirements.  These  crew  members  may  also  maintain  special mission qualification. Certification—Designation of an individual by the certifying official (normally the SQ/CC) as having completed required training and being capable of performing a specific duty. Continuation  Training  (CT)—  Training  which  provides  crew  members  with  the  volume, frequency,  and  mix  of  training  necessary  to  maintain  currency  and  proficiency  in  the  assigned qualification level. Currency—A  measure  of  how  frequently  and/or  recently  a  task  is  completed.  Currency requirements should ensure the average crew member maintains a minimum level of proficiency in a given event. Combat  Mission  Ready  (CMR)—A  crew  member  who  has  satisfactorily  completed  IQT  and MQT,  and  maintains  certifications,  currency,  and  Proficiency  in  the  command  or  unit  combat mission. Crew Position Indicator (CPI)—Codes used to manage crew positions to ensure a high state of readiness is maintained with available resources. Cyberspace Operations  (CO)—The employment of cyberspace capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve objectives in or through cyberspace. Experienced  Crew  (EXP)—Management  term  describing  crew  who  meet  the  requirement  as dictated per within the weapon system specific volumes. Initial  Qualification  Training  (IQT)—Weapon  system-specific  training  designed  to  cover system specific and/or positional specific training leading to declaration of BCQ as a prerequisite to Mission Qualification Training (MQT). Instructor—An  experienced  individual  qualified  to  instruct  other  individuals  in  mission  area academics  and  positional  duties.  Instructors  will  be  qualified  appropriately  to  the  level  of  the training they provide. Instructor  Event—An  event  logged by an instructor when performing instructor duties during the  sortie,  or  a  portion  thereof.  Instructor  qualification  required  and  used  for  the  mission  or  a mission element. Examples include upgrade sorties, updating lost currencies, etc. Instructors will log this event on evaluation sorties. Lookback— A management tool used to determine and monitor CMR crew member proficiency during  the  training  cycle.  A  crew  member’s  lookback  requirements  are  based  on  the  crew member’s experience status. Mission—A  set  of  tasks  that  lead  to  an  objective,  to  include  associated  planning,  brief, execution, and debrief. Mission  Qualification  Training  (MQT)—Following  IQT,  MQT  is  a  formal  training  program used  to  qualify  crew  members  in  assigned  crew  positions  to  perform  the  unit  mission.  This training is required to achieve a basic level of competence in unit's primary tasked missions and is a prerequisite for MR/CMR or BMC declaration. 22 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 Non-effective Sortie—A sortie in which 50% of planned RCP events were not accomplished. Proficiency—A  measure  of  how  well  a  task  is  completed.  A  crew  member  is  considered proficient when they can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed, accuracy, and safety. Qualification  (QUAL—)  –  Designation  of  an  individual  by  the  unit  commander  as  having completed required training and evaluation and being capable of performing a specific duty. Ready  Cybercrew  Program  (RCP)—Annual  sortie/event  training  requirements  for  crews  to maintain mission ready/combat mission ready (MR/CMR) status. Requalification  Training  (RQT)—Training  required  to  recertify  a  crew  member  with  an expired qualification evaluation or loss of currency exceeding 6 months. Sortie—The  actions  an  individual  cyberspace  weapon  system  takes  to  accomplish  a  mission and/or mission objective(s) within a defined start and stop period. Specialized  Mission  Training—Training  in  any  special  skills  (e.g.,  tactics,  weapon  system capabilities, responsibilities, etc.) necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions that are not required  by  every  crew  member.  Specialized  training  is  normally  accomplished  after  the  crew member is assigned MR/CMR or BMC status, and is normally in addition to MR/CMR or BMC requirements. This  training may require an additional certification and/or  qualification event  as determined by the SQ/CC. Squadron  Supervisor—May  include  all  or  some  of  the  following  depending  on  specific guidance and SQ/CC concurrence: SQ/CC, SQ/DO, ADOs, and FLT/CCs. Supervisory  Crew  or  Staff  Member—Personnel  in  supervisory  or  staff  positions  (CPI-6/8/B/D) who actively conduct cyber operations. Supervised  Status—The  status  of  a  crew  member  who  must  perform  mission  under  the supervision of an instructor. Training Level—Assigned to individuals based on the continuation training status (basic cyber qualification, basic mission capable, or mission ready/combat mission ready) they are required to maintain. Training Period—Any training period determined by the Wing in which training requirements are performed. Upgrade  Training—Training  needed  to  qualify  to  a  crew  position  of  additional  responsibility for  a  specific  weapon  system  (e.g.,  special  mission  qualifications).  See  special  mission  event training.  AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 23 Attachment 2 TRAINING PROGRESSION FLOW CHART   24 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 Attachment 3 CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Crew inventory requires close management at all levels to ensure a high state of readiness is maintained with available resources.  To manage crew inventory, CPI codes are assigned to identify these positions.    Table A4.1.  Crew Position Indicator Codes. CPI Codes  Explanation 1 2 3 4 6 8 A B C D E Crew position used primarily for weapon system operations (Officer). Crew position used primarily for weapon system operations (Government Civilians). Staff or supervisory positions at wing level and below that have responsibilities and duties that require cyberspace operations expertise but which do not require the incumbents to operate the weapon system.   Staff or supervisory positions above the wing level that have responsibilities and duties that require cyberspace operations expertise but which do not require the incumbents to operate the weapon system.   Staff or supervisory positions at wing level and below that have responsibilities and duties that require the incumbents to actively perform cyberspace operational duties on the weapon system.   Staff or supervisory positions above the wing level that have responsibilities and duties that require the incumbent to actively conduct cyberspace operations on the weapon system.  Crew positions used primarily for weapon system operations (Enlisted).  Staff or supervisory positions at wing level and below that have responsibilities and duties that require the incumbents to actively perform cyberspace operational duties on the weapon system.   Staff or supervisory positions at wing level and below that have responsibilities and duties that require cyberspace operations expertise but which do not require the incumbents to actively operate the weapon system.   Staff or supervisory positions above the wing level that have responsibilities and duties that require the incumbent to actively conduct cyberspace operations on a weapon system. Staff or supervisory positions above the wing level that have responsibilities and duties that require cyberspace operations expertise but which do not require the incumbents to actively operate the weapon system.   Remarks See Note 1 See Note 1 See Note 2 See Note 2 See Note 2 See Note 2 See Note 1 See Note 2 See Note 2 See Note 2 See Note 2 AFI17-2NASV1  10 FEBRUARY 2017 25 CPI Codes  Explanation Z Crew positions used primarily for weapon system operations (Contractor). Remarks See Note 1 Notes: 1.  CPI-1, 2, A and Z are for officers, enlisted, government civilian, and contractor personnel assigned to operational squadrons or formal training programs. The primary duty of these personnel is to operate the weapon system to conduct cyberspace operations.  2.  CPI-3, 4, 6, 8, B, C, D, and E identify crew members assigned to supervisory or staff positions. These positions require cyberspace operations experience with some requiring weapon system operation (CPI-6, 8, B, and D).   