BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 17-2CDA VOLUME 3 9 JUNE 2017 Cyberspace     AIR FORCE CYBERSPACE DEFENSE ANALYSIS (CDA) OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  AF/A3CX/A6CX   Certified by: AF/A3C/A6C  (Col Charles Cornelius) Pages: 17  This volume implements Air Force (AF) Policy Directive (AFPD) 17-2, Cyberspace Operations and references AFI 17-202 Volume 3, Cyberspace Operations and Procedures.  It applies to all Cyberspace Defense  Analysis (CDA) units. This  publication applies to  all  military and civilian AF personnel, members of the AF Reserve Command (AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG), and contractor support personnel in accordance with appropriate provisions contained in memoranda support  agreements  and  AF  contracts.  This  publication  requires  the  collection  and  or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1947. The authorities to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Chapter 857 and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, 30 November 1943, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008. The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  Major  Command  (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers to AF/A3C/A6C. Ensure all records created as a result of processes 2 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 3 Chapter 1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1.1.  References, Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Terms. See Attachment 1. 1.2.  General.  This  volume,  in  conjunction  with  other  governing  directives,  prescribes procedures  for  operating  the  CDA  weapon  system  under  most  circumstance,  but  it  is  not  a substitute  for  sound  judgment  or  common  sense.  It  directs  actions,  assigns  responsibilities  and prescribes  procedures  for  generating  and  employing  AF  CDA  mission  crews.  Procedures  not specifically  addressed  may  be  accomplished  if  they  enhance  safe  and  effective  mission accomplishment. 1.3.  Waivers.  Unless  another  approval  authority  is  cited  ("T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3"),  waiver authority for this volume is the MAJCOM/A3 (or equivalent).  Submit requests for waivers using AF  Form  679,  Air  Force  Publication  Compliance  Item  Waiver  Request/Approval  through  the chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval  authority.  If  approved,  waivers remain  in  effect  for  the  life  of  the  published  guidance,  unless  the  waiver  authority  specifies  a shorter period of time, cancels in writing, or issues a change that alters the basis for the waiver. 1.4.  Deviations.  In  the  case  of  an  urgent  requirement  or  emergency  the  Cyberspace  Mission Supervisor (CMS) will take appropriate action(s) to ensure safe operations. 1.5.  Processing Changes. 1.5.1.  The  submitting  MAJCOM  will  forward  information  copies  of  AF  Forms  847  to  all other MAJCOMS that use this publication. Using MAJCOMs will forward comments on AF Forms 847 to the OPR. 1.5.2.  OPR will: 1.5.2.1.  Coordinate all changes to the basic instruction with affected MAJCOM/A3s. (T-2) 1.5.2.2.  Forward  change  recommendations  to  MAJCOM/A3  for  staffing  and  AF/A3 approval. (T-2) 1.6.  Supplements.  Guidance for supplementing this publication is in AFI 33-360. Supplements will not duplicate, alter, amend or be less restrictive than the provisions of this instruction. (T-2) 4 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 Chapter 2 CREW DUTIES, POSITIONS, AND PROCEDURES 2.1.  Crew  Stations.  Crewmembers  shall  be  in  their  seats  on  the  operations  floor  during  the mission execution. Crewmembers will notify their CDA Operations Controller (CDA-OC) prior to departing their assigned crew duty station. (T-3) 2.2.  Crew  Duties.  Crewmembers  are  responsible  for  successful  sortie  completion.  Crews  are responsible for the safe, effective use of the weapon system. A crew brief will be accomplished before each mission execution to ensure an understanding of all mission aspects. (T-3) 2.3.  Crew Positions. 2.3.1.  Cyberspace  Defense  Analysis/Operations  Controller  (CDA-OC).  Directs,  manages, and provides oversight for sorties and cybercrew personnel, as well as enforcing policies and procedures  to  ensure  successful  mission  accomplishment.  Performs  quality  control  on  all reports and mission logging and is also the Crew Lead during a sortie. In addition to CDA-A duties, the CDA-OC duties include: 2.3.1.1.  Managing crew resources and safe mission accomplishment. (T-3) 2.3.1.2.  Welfare of the crew. (T-3) 2.3.1.3.  Ensuring  risk  management  decision  matrices  are  performed  prior  to  mission briefing. (T-3) 2.3.1.4.  Leads crew mission planning, mission brief, and debrief. (T-3) 2.3.1.5.  Responsible for any post mission reporting. (T-3) 2.3.2.  Cyberspace  Defense  Analysis/Analyst  (CDA-A).  Operates  the  CDA  weapon  system, conducting enduring enterprise-wide monitoring, analysis, and reporting to minimize the type and  amount  of  unclassified  information  supporting  global  AF  Operations  (air,  space,  and cyberspace) available for exploitation. CDA-A duties include: 2.3.2.1.  Perform and sign Operational Risk Management (ORM) as part of Sign Go/No-Go. (T-3) 2.3.2.2.  Read the Crew Information File (CFI). (T-3) 2.3.2.3.  Review  the  AFCYBER  Cyberspace  Tasking  Order  (CTO)  and  Special Instructions (SPINS) for updates. (T-3) 2.3.2.4.  Process and analyze assigned data alerts from CDA/OC. (T-3) 2.3.2.5.  Notify CDA/OC with flagged alerts. (T-3) 2.3.2.6.  Identify and report system errors to the CDA/OC. (T-3) 2.3.2.7.  Make  recommendations  to  modify,  add,  change  or  delete  keywords  and signatures. (T-3) 2.3.3.  The  Web  Risk  Assessment  (WRA)  operator  is  a  special  mission  qualification  and provides  the  capability  for  continuous  and  systematic  analysis  of  content  and  information resident  on  AF  owned,  leased,  or  operated  web  sites.  Minimizing  the  vulnerability  of  AF AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 5 information  posted  on  an  AF  public  and  private  unclassified  Web  sites  by  identifying sensitive  information  and  personal  data  to  the  information  owner  and  web  management community  for  review/action.  Conduct  cross  sectional  analyses  of  AF  web  content,  trend analyses, and data aggregation where unclassified information from multiple Web sites could pose an unacceptable risk to ongoing military operations and personnel. 2.3.4.  The  Deployed  Voice  Monitoring  System  (DVMS)  operator  is  a  special  mission qualification and provides a mobile capability to monitor and analyze digital telephone traffic at  locations not  directly  connected to  a major  cyberspace hub and Voice Protection System through  the  use  of  portable  devices  connected  appliances/cache  devices  installed  at  AF installations. Data collected can be either analyzed locally or exported to the local CDA unit for offsite analysis. 2.3.5.  The  FIDELIS  SCOUT  (SCOUT)  operator  is  a  special  mission  qualification  and provides a mobile capability to monitor e-mail and Internet based Capabilities (IbC) for use at  locations  that  do  not  fall  under  the  AF  Gateway  architecture.  The  system  consists  of  a Fidelis XPS Sensor, a Fidelis XPS Command Post, and the Fidelis XPS interface all in one laptop. 2.3.6.  The  Radio  Frequency  (RF)  operator  is  a  special  mission  qualifications  and  provides the  capability  to  monitor  and  collect  RF  communications  to  include  most  cellular transmissions  (not  capable  of  ''breaking''  commonly  used  encryption  schemes),  pager transmissions,  Ultra  High  Frequency (VHF) communications. Data collected can be either analyzed locally or exported to a CDA unit for offsite analysis. (UHF),  and  Very  High  Frequency 2.4.  Crew Manning.  See table 2.1 for standard crew compliment requirements. (T-3) Table 2.1.  Standard Crew Manning. Weapon System CDA CDA-OC 1 CDA-A 3 Total Crew 4 2.5.  Inexperienced crewmembers will  not perform operations, until certified. (T-1) 2.6.  Crew Qualification.  Each person assigned as a primary crewmember must be qualified or in  training  for  qualification  in  that  crew  position,  mission,  and  weapon  system.  Those crewmembers in a training status will accomplish weapon system operations and/or duties only under the supervision of a qualified instructor. (T-3) 2.6.1.  Basic cybercrew qualified (BCQ) crewmembers have completed an evaluation and are qualified  to  perform  basic  crew  duties  on  the  CDA.  BCQ  crewmembers  may  perform primary  crew  duties  on  any  training  sortie  and  on  missions  (including  unilateral  training, joint  training  and  exercises)  when  receiving  Mission  Qualification  Training  (MQT)  or evaluations  under the supervision  of a qualified instructor in  their respective crew position. (T-3) 2.6.2.  Basic mission capable (BMC) crewmembers may perform primary crew duties on any training  mission.  The  unit  commander  must  determine  the  readiness  of  each  BMC crewmember to perform primary crew duties. (T-3) 6 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 2.6.3.  Mission ready (MR) crewmembers may perform primary crew  duties in any position in which they maintain qualification, certification, currency and proficiency. (T-3) 2.6.4.  Non-current or unqualified crewmembers may perform crew duties only on designated training or evaluation missions under the supervision of a qualified instructor. (T-3) 2.6.4.1.  The  Operations  Group  Commander  (OG/CC),  may  authorize  unqualified personnel  to  perform  duties  in  non-operator  crew  positions  (e.g.,  Distinguished  Visitor (DV)  visits)  during  execution  under  direct  instructor  supervision.  This  familiarization will  only  be  conducted in  permissive  environments,  and  only  when  mission accomplishment is not impacted. (T-3) 2.7.  New/Modified  Equipment  and/or  Capabilities.  Crewmembers  not  qualified  and/or certified in the operation of significant new hardware and/or weapon system capabilities will not operate  that  hardware  or  perform  any  duties  associated  with  that  weapon  system  capability(s). Crewmembers  not  qualified  or  certified  will  work  under  the  supervision  of  a  current  and qualified instructor unless otherwise specified by MAJCOM guidance. Non-Current events must be satisfied before the individual is considered certified/qualified (as applicable) to perform those events unsupervised. (T-3) 2.8.  Crew  Rest/Duty  Period/Sortie  Duration.  Crew  rest,  crew  duty  period  and  crew augmentation will be IAW all applicable guidance with the following additional guidance: 2.8.1.  Crew Rest.  Crew rest is a minimum 12-hour non-duty period before the duty period begins  to  ensure  the  crewmember  is  adequately  rested  before  performing  a  mission  or mission-related duties. Crew rest is free time, and includes time for meals, transportation and rest.  Rest  is  defined  as  a  condition  that  allows  an  individual  the  opportunity  to  sleep.  Each crewmember is individually responsible for ensuring they obtain sufficient rest during crew rest periods. (T-3) 2.8.2.  Duty Period. The normal crew duty period is up to twelve (12) hours. (T-3) 2.8.3.  Sortie. For planning purposes, the  average sortie duration is  six (6) hours. This  does not  include  crew  step  and/or  pre-mission  brief,  debrief  and  submitting  Mission  Reports (MISREP). (T-3) 2.9.  Crew  Scheduling.  All  crew  members  are  responsible  for  maintaining  awareness  of scheduled sorties. (T-3) AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 7 Chapter 3 MISSION MATERIALS 3.1.  Mission  Resources.  All resources used in the execution of AF CDA operational missions will  be  current  and  available  to  crews  before  each  mission.  This  includes  databases,  mission folders, trackers, etc. and operator aids (Standard Operating Procedures, crew aids, etc.). 3.2.  Crew Information Files (CIF). 3.2.1.  The CIF is a library consisting of, at a minimum, a current read file and publications. Crewmembers  will  review  CIF/Crew  Bulletin  before  all  missions,  and  update  the  CIF currency record with the latest CIF item number, date, and crewmember's initials. (T-3) 3.2.2.  Electronic signatures or hard copy sign-off may be used on CIFs. (T-3) 3.2.3.  Crewmembers  delinquent  in  CIF  review  or  joining  a  mission  enroute  will  receive  a CIF update from a primary crewmember counterpart executing the mission. (T-3) 3.3.  Crew Bulletin (CB).  Utilized primarily for crew notification, and included in Step Briefs. Items in the CB may include local procedures and policies concerning equipment and personnel generally not found in any other publications. 3.4.  Crew Checklists/Aids. 3.4.1.  Mission  crewmembers  will  use  all  required  technical  orders  for  their  assigned position. All crewmembers will have current hardcopy/softcopy technical orders for mission start-up,  recovery  and  complex,  critical,  or  time-sensitive  tasks  to  be  performed  by  the mission  crewmembers.  All  technical  orders  for  each  crew  mission  position  may  be consolidated and centrally stored and maintained. (T-3) 3.4.2.  Unit  Standardization/Evaluation  (Stan/Eval)  will  maintain  the  CIF  library,  listing current and authorized standard operating procedures, technical orders, crew aids, etc. (T-3) 3.4.3.  All  operators  can  provide  mission  material  updates  and/or  inputs  to  Stan/Eval.  For local materials, Stan/Eval will review for possible incorporation into mission materials. (T-3) 3.5.  Mission Databases.  The mission database (also known as the CDA database) is the unit’s official  record of events  that occurred during operations. A separate dedicated database is  used for training sorties. The purpose of the database is to maintain an accurate and detailed record of all significant events pertaining to operations occurring during each sortie. (T-3) 3.5.1.  Units will maintain local databases to track and record events. (T-3) 3.5.2.  The  CDA-OC  will  input  pertinent  mission  data  into  the  mission  database  and  the sortie  database,  both  of  which  are  contained  within  the  CDA  database.  The  CDA-OC  will notify the CMS once mission data is complete. (T-3) 3.5.2.1.  The  CMS  is  responsible  for  content,  accuracy,  and  timeliness  of  all  inputs  to mission-related information  sharing environments IAW with applicable directives, tasking, and policy. (T-3) information  management  portals/collaborative 8 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 Chapter 4 MISSION PLANNING 4.1.  Responsibilities.  Individual  crews,  unit  operations  and  analytical  functions  jointly  share responsibility for mission planning. The CDA/OC is responsible for all tactical mission planning. Unit commanders may supplement mission planning requirements but will ensure an appropriate level of mission planning is conducted prior to each mission. (T-3) 4.1.1.  Mission  Planning  Cell  (MPC).  If  an  MPC  is  utilized,  the  unit/DO  or  MPC  Chief (MPCC) will determine the show time. (T-3) 4.1.1.1.  The  Squadron  (SQ)/DO  will  ensure  MPC  is  manned  for  each  tasked  mission through Crew Scheduling. (T-3) 4.1.1.2.  The MPC can be tailored in size, manning, positions, and grade to meet mission planning requirements. (T-3) 4.2.  Standard  Operating  Procedures  (SOP).  The  unit/CC  is  the  approval  authority  for  unit standards.  The  Operations  Group  (OG)/CC  may  publish  group  standards.  The  OG Standardization and Evaluation office (OGV) will review all standards for compliance with AFI 17-series guidance. (T-3) 4.3.  Mission Planning Guidelines. requires 4.3.1.  Effective  mission  accomplishment thorough  mission  planning  and preparation.  Specific  mission  planning  elements  are  addressed  in  Air  Force  Tactics, Techniques,  and  Procedures  (AFTTP)  3-1.General  Planning,  AFTTP  3-1.CDA,  Air  Force Cyber  Command  (AFCYBER)  &  Joint  Forces  Headquarters-Cyber  (JFHQ-C)  AFCYBER Tactical  Mission  Planning,  Briefing  and  Debriefing  Guide,  and  any  local  crew  aids.  While not  directive,  these  manuals  are  authoritative  and  useful  in  ensuring  adequate  mission planning and employment. (T-3) 4.3.2.  The  unit  will  provide  adequate  time  and  facilities  for  mission  planning.  Crews  will accomplish  sufficient  planning  to  ensure  successful  mission  accomplishment.  Units  will maintain  facilities  where  all  information  and  materials  required  for  mission  planning  are available.  All  crews  are  required  to  receive  a  mission  briefing  prior  to  executing  tasked missions. (T-3). 4.3.3.  The following mission information should be covered by the mission planners during planning: (T-3). 4.3.3.1.  Mission priorities (T-3) 4.3.3.2.  Operational and tactical objectives (T-3) 4.3.3.3.  Measures of performance (T-3) 4.3.3.4.  Measures of effectiveness 4.3.3.5.  Unit mission description (if applicable) (T-3) 4.3.3.6.  Tasking order (T-3) 4.3.3.7.  Significant rules (e.g., SPINS, ROE) (T-3) AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 9 4.3.3.8.  Current weapon system status (T-3) 4.3.3.9.  Threat data/current intelligence (T-3) 4.3.3.10.  Critical information list (CIL), if applicable (T-3) 4.3.3.11.  Signature list (provided by signature author) (T-3) 4.3.3.12.  Contact list (T-3) 4.3.3.13.  Emergency POCs (T-3) 4.3.3.14.  Vulnerability/operating window (T-3) 4.3.3.15.  Deconfliction plan (if applicable) (T-3) 4.3.3.16.  Abort criteria and contingency plan (T-3) 4.3.4.  Crisis  Mission  Planning  (CMP).  Crisis  planning  activities  are  similar  to  deliberate planning  activities,  but  CMP  is  based  on  dynamic  operations,  active  threats,  and  time sensitive real-world conditions. (T-3) 4.3.5.  The Group/CC is the approval authority for immediate execution of crisis action /Ad-hoc tasking’s utilizing standing AFIN-wide signatures, with crisis planning being conducted concurrently. (T-3) 4.4.  Mission  Planning  Cell  (MPC).  The  MPC,  when  employed,  is  responsible  for  providing mission  crews  the  most  current  mission  execution  information  derived  from  multiple  agencies. They  are  responsible  for  conducting  mission-planning  activities  and  to  produce,  review,  brief, and  disseminate  the  Pre-Mission  Briefing  (PMB)  and  pertinent  mission  information  to  the operations  crews  for  execution.  All  crewmembers  must  attend  the  pre-mission  brief  prior  to executing the mission. (T-3) 4.4.1.  The  Pre-Mission  Briefing  (PMB).  The  PMB  must  be  formally  presented  to  the  crew force  at  least  one  duty  day  prior  to  scheduled  mission  execution.  All  crewmembers,  unless excused  by  unit/DO,  must  attend  the  pre-mission  brief  prior  to  executing  the  mission. Operators assigned to perform the tasked mission who did not attend the formal PMB must review the brief prior to working the mission. (T-3) 4.5.  Mission Planning Cell Chief (MPCC).  The MPCC will be appointed by the SQ/DO. The MPCC must be a 5 skill level, unless otherwise designated by SQ/DO. The MPCC will serve as the primary analyst for a single tasked mission and a liaison between sortie crews and supported units or tasking authority. (T-3) 4.5.1.  The MPCC must plan adequate time to discuss required briefing items commensurate with the complexity of the mission and operator capabilities. (T-3) 4.5.1.1.  Coordinate with the tasking authority on the SPINS and CTO for the integration of CDA into the cyber employment plan. (T-3) 4.5.1.2.  Obtain CTO and “breakout” new mission information pertinent to the unit. (T-3) 4.5.1.3.  Review and disseminate current intelligence information. (T-3) 4.5.1.4.  Prepare and brief Pre-Mission Briefing. (T-3) 4.5.1.5.  Prepare and attend sortie step briefs/debriefs. (T-3) 10 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 4.5.1.6.  Collect  and  pass  planning  “Lessons  Learned”  to  all  MPC  members  and  CDA units. (T-3) 4.5.1.7.  Nominate  and  maintain  Prioritized  Intelligence  Requirements  (PIRs)  and establish and refine associated Essential Elements of Information (EEIs). (T-3) 4.6.  Signature  Development  will  be  conducted  by  a  support  element  and  integrated  into mission, planning, research, and debrief to develop/refine mission signatures for weapon system employment. (T-3) AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 11 Chapter 5 MISSION EXECUTION 5.1.  General Guidelines.  The guidelines in this chapter contain the minimum requirements for mission  execution.  Units  may  develop  supplemental  baseline  standards  for  mission  execution. (T-3) 5.2.  Crew  Pre-Mission  Preparations.  Mission  crews  will  perform,  at  a  minimum,  the following tasks prior to mission start: 5.2.1.  Pre-Mission  Arrival  and  Check-In.    Each  crewmember  will  report  for  their  sortie  at the  scheduled  time,  ensuring  they  have  sufficient  crew  rest.  Sortie  show  time  will  allow sufficient time to accomplish all pre-mission activities. (T-3) 5.2.1.1.  Go/No  Go  Validation.    Prior  to  mission  launch/start,  the  CMS  will  verify  the mission  crew  is  on-station  and  prepared  to  execute  tasked  missions  and  that  individual crewmembers are current, qualified, and/or adequately supervised to perform operations and have reviewed CIF Volume 1, Part B prior to conducting operations. At a minimum, the  unit  Go/No-Go  process  will  verify  the  following  for  all  crewmembers,  to  include instructors and evaluators, scheduled to perform crew duties: (T-3) 5.2.1.2.  Qualification/certification of each scheduled crewmember IAW AFI 17-2 CDA Volume  1,  Cyberspace  Defense  Analysis  Training  and  AFI  17-2  CDA  Volume  2,  Air Force Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Standardization and Evaluation for the crew position,  mission,  and  duties  they  are  scheduled  to  perform.    Note:    Crewmembers  not qualified/certified  and  in  training  status  will  require  instructor  supervision  to  conduct crew duties. (T-3) 5.2.1.3.  Currency  and  proficiency  of  each  scheduled  crewmember  IAW  AFI  17-2CDAV1 for the crew position, mission, and duties they are scheduled to perform.  Note:  Crewmembers  not  current  in  the  crew  position  and/or  mission  will  require  instructor supervision to conduct crew duties until regaining currency. (T-3) 5.2.1.4.  CIF Review. Crewmembers will review Volume I Part B, Current Read File of CIF,  directly  pertinent  to  the  safe  conduct  of  operations.  Crewmembers  will  utilize  Go No-Go procedures to verify review of the CIF. (T-3) 5.2.2.  Crew  Brief.  Crewmembers  will  receive  a  step  brief  prior  to  stepping  to  the  weapon system.  The  CDA-OC  will  ensure  all  crewmembers  are  briefed,  at  a  minimum,  on  crew requirements and responsibilities, weapon system configurations/changes, CIF items/updates, Go/No-Go  status,  TTP  updates,  emergency  action  procedures,  mission/training  objectives, and  any  mission  changes.  Unit  will  adjust  Step  Brief  as  needed  to  ensure  fulfillment  of mission requirements.  (T-3) 5.2.2.1.  Unbriefed missions/events will not be executed. (T-3) 5.2.3.  Mission Crew Resource Verification. Each crewmember will perform an inventory of all position mission resources, and notify the CMS if issues need to be addressed. (T-3) 12 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 5.2.4.  System  Status  Verification.  Prior  to  mission  launch/start,  the  sortie  CDA-OC,  in coordination with mission assurance personnel,  will verify the operational status of mission equipment, sensors, mission signatures, and report status to the CMS or unit/DO. (T-3) 5.2.4.1.  If any required systems are NMC or PMC or are projected to be inoperable, the Cyberspace  Mission  Supervisor (CMS)  or  unit/DO  will  declare  mission delay/cancelation/abort as appropriate IAW paragraph 5.3. (T-3) 5.3.  CMS.  Maintains  command  and  control  (C2)  of  CDA  cybercrew  operations  and  provides oversight  for  personnel  conducting  mission  as  well  as  enforcing  policies  and  procedures  to ensure  successful  mission  accomplishment.  The  CMS  directs/coordinates  near  real-time responses and timely reporting of operation disclosures in accordance with appropriate guidance. The  CMS  is  responsible  for  understanding  and  executing  Emergency  Action  Procedures,  when applicable. CMS will: 5.3.1.  Review and verify AFCTO taskings. (T-3) 5.3.2.  Verify each crewmember’s risk management  level  and sign off crewmembers on the Go/No-Go. (T-3) 5.3.3.  Conduct the step brief. (T-3) 5.3.4.  Establish  and  maintain  C2  communications  for  coordination  with  external agencies/mission partners. CMS will report “On/Off Station” for all missions. (T-3) 5.3.5.  Review and submit all CDA products to include MISREPs. (T-3) 5.3.6.  Report mission outages (refer to local guidance). (T-3) 5.3.7.  Coordinates any necessary crewmember changes. (T-3) 5.4.  Launch/Mission/Abort  Delay.  Prior  to  mission  start,  recommend  delay  sortie  start  if  the primary sensors or primary mission equipment are, or are projected to be, NMC or a minimum crew manning position(s) cannot be manned  at  sortie start  time. The CMS will contact  the  Air Force Cyber Operations Center to inform them of the No-Go status. (T-3) 5.5.  Contingency  Considerations.  The  unit/DO  may  direct  the  non-support  of  the  sortie  or reallocate the mission to another AF CDA mission crew or location if available. (T-3) AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 13 Chapter 6 POST MISSION 6.1.  Mission  Assessment.  CDA  crewmembers  will  document  mission  highlights  and deficiencies, keep mission statistics, record and archive essential mission data and assess mission performance. They will complete these actions as outlined by locally derived unit publications. (T-3) 6.2.  Crew Debrief. 6.2.1.  Each sortie will be debriefed by the CDA-OC assigned to that sortie. (T-3) 6.2.2.  All crewmembers will attend the debrief. (T-3) 6.2.2.1.  Attendance  of  specific  crewmembers  and  other  personnel  (i.e.,  contractors, logistics support, etc.) should be based upon mission requirements and need-to-know. (T-3) 6.2.3.  Debriefs will cover all  aspects  of the mission (planning, briefing  and execution)  and ensure  all  participants  receive  feedback  through  the  development  of  Lessons  Learned  (LL) and Learning Points (LP). (T-3) 6.2.4.  Crewmembers  will  not  depart  the  duty  area  until  completion  of  the  debrief  and  are released by the CMS. (T-3) 6.3.  Post Mission Duties. 6.3.1.  System Readiness. All crewmembers will ensure weapon system is returned to a ready state as defined by unit/DO or CMS. (T-3) 6.3.2.  Systems  Refresh.  All  crewmembers  will  ensure  workstations  are  restarted  after  each duty day is completed. It is the CDA-OC responsibility to ensure the sortie workstations are cleaned, sanitized, and restarted. (T-3) 6.4.  Mission  Report  (MISREP).  The  CMS  is  responsible  for  receiving  and  disseminating timely, accurate, and correctly formatted reports IAW tasking authority guidance. (T-3) 6.4.1.  MISREPs will be completed post-mission and prior to departing. (T-3) 6.4.2.  The CDA-OC is responsible for providing the appropriate data regarding their mission area(s) for the MISREP and disseminating to the CMS. (T-3) 6.4.3.  Local procedures/templates may be developed to ensure standardization of reporting. (T-3) 6.5.  Product  Dissemination.  CMS  will  compiled  and  disseminated  IAW  local  or  tasking authority guidance. (T-3)  WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lt Gen, USAF Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer 14 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, 30 November 1943, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008. Privacy Act (PA) of 1947 Air Force (AF) Policy Directive (AFPD) 17-2, Cyberspace Operations, 12 April 2016 AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007 AFI 17-2 CDA Volume 1, Cyberspace Defense Analysis Training, 27 April 2017 AFI 17-2 CDA Volume 2, Air Force Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA) Standardization and Evaluation, 27 April 2017 AFI 17-202V3, Cyberspace Operations and Procedures, 6 May 2015 AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011 AFI 10-712, CDA Operations and Notice and Consent Process, 17 December 2015 AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, 15 September 2011 AFI 11-415, Weapons & Tactics Program, 15 October 2014 AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 5 November 2014 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, (Incorporating Change 2, 9 June 2016, Certified Current 21 July 2016). Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 679, Air Force Publication Compliance Item Waiver Request/Approval AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms A— Analyst AD— Active Duty AF— Air Force AFI— Air Force Instruction AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 15 AFMAN— Air Force Manual AFCYBER— Air Force Cyber Command AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System AFTTP— Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures ANG— Air National Guard AOC— Air and Space Operations Center AOR— Area of Responsibility ARC— Air Reserve Component BCQ— Basic Cybercrew qualified BMC— Basic Mission Capable C2— Command and Control CB— Crew Bulletin CDA— Cyber Defense Analysis CIF— Crew Information File CMP—Crisis Mission Planning CMS—Cyber Mission Supervisor CTO— Cyber Tasking Order CO— Cyber Operator COCOM— Combatant Command DAF— Department of the Air Force DCGS— Distributed Common Ground System DIA— Defense Intelligence Agency DO— Director of Operations DRU— Direct Reporting Unit DV—Distinguished Visitor DVMS— Deployed Voice Monitoring System EEI— Essential Elements of Information FMC— Fully Mission Capable FTU— Formal Training Unit HAF— Headquarters Air Force 16 AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 HHQ— Higher Headquarters HQ— Headquarters IAW—In Accordance With JFHQ-C – Joint Forces Headquarters-Cyber LL—Lessons Learned LP— Learning Points MAJCOM— Major Command MISREPs—Mission Reports MPC— Mission Planning Cell MPPC—Mission Planning Cell Chief MQT— Mission Qualification Training MR— Mission Ready NGB—National Guard Bureau NMC— Non Mission Capable NRT - Near—Real Time OC— Operation Center OCA— Original Classification Authority OG—Operations Group OGV—Operations Group and Evaluation Office OPCON— Operational Control OPLAN— Operational Plan OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility ORM— Operations Risk Management PIR— Prioritized Intelligence Requirements PLANORD— Planning Order PMB – Pre-Mission Briefing RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RF—Radio Frequency RFI— Request for Information ROE— Rules of Engagement SECDEF— Secretary of Defense SDO— Senior Duty Officer AFI17-CDAV3  9 JUNE 2017 17 SME— Subject Matter Expert SOF— Special Operations Forces SOP—Standard Operating Procedures SPINS— Special Instructions Stan/Eval— Standardization/Evaluation TIP— Tactic Improvement Proposal TTP— Tactics, Techniques and Procedures UHF—Ultra High Frequency USAF— United States Air Force VHF—Very High Frequency W&T— Weapons and Tactics WRA— Web Risk Assessment Terms Basic Mission Capable (BMC)— The status of CDA mission crewmembers who satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain MR status. Mission Ready (MR)— The status of CDA mission crewmembers who satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge required by this document. Crew—  The  total  complement  of  crewmembers  required  to  operate  a  mission  system  and complete an assigned mission. Crew Information File (CIF)— Files used to inform mission crewmembers on items of interest pertaining to the system and/or personnel.  This includes items such as changes in operating procedures, safety warnings, deployment procedures,  software changes, etc. Mission Qualification Training (MQT)— Training needed to qualify mission crewmembers to perform their specific squadron (SQ) mission in an assigned position. This training is a prerequisite  for MR or BMC status.  