Template modified:BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE27 May 1997 14:30 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-20519 MAY 1994     Certified Current, 3 NOVEMBER 2009Flying OperationsAIRCRAFT COCKPIT AND FORMATIONFLIGHT SIGNALSCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ ACC/DOTV (Maj Glenn W. Weaver) Supersedes AFR 60-15, 1 June 1992.Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO(Maj Gen Edwin E. Tenoso)Pages: 12Distribution: FThis instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Flight Rules and Procedures.  It provides guidance and proce-dures for standard Air Force cockpit and formation flight manuals.  It also indicates distress signals thathave been standardized for use with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces (NATOSTANAG 3379).  It applies to the operation of US Air Force aircraft flown by Air Force pilots, pilots ofother services or countries, and civilian pilots.  It also applies to the Air National Guard and US Air ForceReserve units and members.  It supplements International Civil Aviation Organization standard signals inthe Flight Information Publication (FLIP) Enroute Supplement.SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 11-2.1. Cockpit Signals for Multiple Aircraft:1.1. Voice. Voice is the primary method of communication between the pilot and other crew mem-bers.  Crew members will repeat the pilot’s instructions before executing them.1.2. Hand Signals. Hand signals are another method of communication between aircraft.  Use ofhand signals are authorized if all flight crew members understand their meaning.1.3. Night Visual Signals. Night visual signals should be used when an aircraft is in distress andunable to communicate using radios.1.4. NATO Standardized Signals. All signals standardized with NATO will appear in the attach-ments with an "*."2. Standard Signals for Formation Flight. Standard signals for formation flight are described inAttachment 1.  Since the signals required may vary for different types of aircraft, only those signals usedin most aircraft are standardized.2.1. These signals reduce radio communications and permit pilots to communicate with each otherduring periods of radio silence.  Use the radios if the situation permits, when time is critical, or thevisual signals are creating confusion.2.2. Sun angle or sun glint on the canopy may make it impossible to either give or acknowledge avisual signal.  With subdued helmets and gray or green gloves, most visual signals are more visible ifgiven near the top of the canopy.2.3. Attachment 1 includes preparatory signals (if any) and the executing signals.3. In-Flight Distress Signals:3.1. The visual signals for distress described in Attachment 2 should only be used if the radio fails orcannot be used due to the situational environment.3.2. International flight distress signals described in Attachment 2 also apply to USAF aircraft.3.3. Night visual signals are described in Attachment 3.LARRY L. HENRY,  Maj General, USAFActing DCS/Plans and Operations2ExecutionNod head.Execute rapid shallow rock-ing of wings.Hold  clenched  fist  withindex  finger  and  thumbextended,  back  of  handtowards canopy.Wingman responds by exe-cuting  prebriefed  BDAcheck.Pilot of aircraft assumingthe lead nods head.Dip wing to the right or left,whichever is appropriate.Extend clenched fist withforefinger and little fingerextended upward for eachechelon turn performed.Nod head.Attachment 1STANDARD FORMATION SIGNALS FOR DAYTIME COMMUNICATIONTable A1.1. Standard Formation Signals for Daytime Communication (See Notes).ActionAfterburner in or out: Note: Not required duringformation takeoff. Attention in the air:PreparationMove clenched fist inboardor outboard as appropriate.Battle Damage Assessment(BDA) Check:Change Lead:M a ke   s e ve r a l   f o rw a r dpointing motions, then holdup  number  of  fingers  toindicate present position oft h e   p o i n t   w h i c h   i s   t oassume the lead.Echelon  to  the  Right  orLeft:Echelon Turn:*Flaps Up or Down; Note: During a formationtakeoff, preparatory orexecution signals are notrequired for raising flaps.Initial gear movement onthe flight lead’s aircraft maybe used as the wingman’ssignal  for  gear  and  flapretraction.Hand flat, fingers forward,downward motion of handf r o m   w r i s t   t o   l o w e rflaps--reverse motion toraise flaps.3Fuel Check:Fuel Remaining  for liketype aircraft.*Fuel Remaining for dis-similar aircraft.Close fist with the thumbe x t e n d e d   a n d   p e r f o r md r i n k i n g   m o t i o n   w i t hthumb touching the oxygenmask.In response to Fuel Check. Extend one finger for each1,000 lbs. of fuel board.Extend finger(s) verticallyfor 1,000 to 5,000 lbs; hori-zontally for 6,000 to 9,000lbs.  After signaling 1,000lbs. increments, pull handout of sight then signal 100lbs increments in the samemanner.  Signal zero withclosed fist.  For example:To signal 6,300 lbs., extendone  finger  horizontally(indicating 6,000 lbs.); pullhand out of sight (indicat-ing a change  from  thou-sands  to  hundreds);  andextend three fingers verti-cally (indicating 300 lbs.).In response to Fuel Check. a.  Less  than  10  minutesremaining:Use  the  "Land  Immedi-ately"  signal  in Attach-ment 2attachment 2.b.  For more than 10 min-utes, use up to five fingersto indicate each 10 minuteincrement of fuel as fol-lows:1 finger = 10 to 19 minutes2 fingers = 20-29 minutes3 fingers = 30-39 minutes4 fingers = 40-49 minutes5 fingers = more than 50minutes4Gear Down.Gear Up. Note: During a formationtakeoff, preparatory handsignals are not required forraising the gear. Jettison Stores:Lanyard Check:Loosen Formation:Oxygen Check: Note: If the response is notan OK, use the radios orappropriate HEFOE sig-nal. Pitchout:Downward motion with aclosed fist, thumb extendeddownward.Upward motion with closedf i s t ,   t h u m b   e x t e n d e dupward.Nod head.Nod head.Hold fist at top of canopyand make several pumpingmotions.Nod head.Show hooked index finger.Fishtail the aircraft.Cup  hand  over  oxygenmask, followed by query inthe form of an OK sign (cir-cle  formed  by  touchingends of thumb and forefin-g e r ,  f i n g e r sextended).o t h e r  Make  a  circular  motionwith vertically extendedindex finger5Radio Frequency Change: Tap helmet near ear withfingers extended.Ready for Takeoff:After  run  up,  the  leaderlooks at the wingman.Reform or Tighten Forma-tion:Run up Engine for Takeoff:*Speed Brake(s) in or out: Biting motion with hand;fingers and thumb openingand closing.Start Engines:6Extend finger(s) verticallyfor digits 1 through 5, hori-zontally for digits 6 through9, pulling hand down out ofsight between digits. Signalzero with a clenched fist.Ensure signals are  madeagainst  a  visible  back-ground. For example:a .    P r e s e n t   c h a n n e lchange--tap helmet, extendappropriate number of fin-gers for channel desired,pulling hand down out ofsight between digits.b.  Prebriefed manual fre-quency--tap helmet, hold upclenched fist next to helmet.c.  Manual frequency notprebriefed--tap helmet, holdup clenched fist next to thehelmet, extend appropriatenumber of fingers for fre-quency  desired,  pullinghand  down  out  of  sightbetween digits.Wingman nods head yes orno.Rock wings slowly.Make  a  circular  motionwith vertically extendedindex finger.Nod head.Extend arm over head andmake a circular motion withthe hand.Start Takeoff Roll:Lead  places  head  backtoward headrest.Tactical Formation:Lead nods head for braker e l e a s e .   F o r   a i r c r a f tequipped with afterburner,after the aircraft are rollingstraight down the runway, asecond head nod is a signalto light afterburner (unlessafter- burner light up is ini-tiated simultaneously withbrake release).Make a series of porpoisingm aneuvers,  spacing  asbriefed.NOTES:1.  Pilots in formation will relay visual signals; the leader must allow enough time for the relay of each signal after it is given.2.  The head nod is the signal to acknowledge understanding of preparatory signals.7Attachment 2IN-FLIGHT DISTRESS SIGNALSTable A2.1. In-Flight Distress Signals.Intention/ProblemApproach End Cable Engagement*Bailing Out or EjectionDescend to Lower Altitude*Desire to LandElectrical Failure Landing (No Assist AircraftAvailable)I Must Land Immediately8Signala.  Escorted:  Extend tail hook.  Escorting air-craft will relay intent.b.  Unescorted:  Fly parallel to the active run-way at 1,000 feet above the field elevationwith tail hook extended.  Rock wings untilreaching the departure end of the runway, turnto downwind and check tower or mobile con-trol for light signals.  If a straight-in cableengagement must be flown, flash landing lighton final.One or both clenched fists pulled downwardacross the face to simulate pulling an ejectionface curtain.Hold hand at top of canopy, palm down, fin-gers extended and joined, move hand forwardand down.Movement of the hand, flat, with palm down,forward and downward, finishing the move-ment in a simulated roundout.  As an alternatesignal, lower the landing gear.Distressed aircraft will fly 500 feet over thetower or mobile control, then continue to thefar end of the runway and pull up into a widedownward leg.  Proceed with a landing andpattern approach for the type of aircraft beingflown while watching the tower or mobile forsignals.  The control tower will clear the areaof other aircraft and will call emergency crashequipment to the scene.Close fist and hold it to top of canopy withthumb extended downward, then move arm upand down rapidly.  (Do not confuse with"GEAR DOWN" signal, which is generallynot used with altitude.)Pat shoulder, palm down.  To prevent confu-sion with other signals, use right hand and leftshoulder or vice versa.  To acknowledge,other pilot must give the OK signal; the basicsignal indicates a jet approach speed of 130knots.  If the distress aircraft desires a higherapproach speed, the pilot must raise one fingerfor each 10 knot increase desired.  The dis-tressed aircraft lands and the escort executes ago around.The intercepting aircraft positions itself infront of and usually to the left of the inter-cepted aircraft and rocks its wings.  This is asignal that the interceptor wishes the other air-craft to follow it.  A responding irregularflashing of all available lights in this case indi-cates distress.Tap microphone or earphone of helmet andsignal as appropriate:a.  Receive Failure:  With palm of hand overthe ear position, move hand forward and back-ward.b.  Transmitter Failure:  With palm of handtoward and in front of the face, move hand upand down.Fly aircraft along the side of the landing run-way, 1,000 feet above the field elevation,rocking wings until reaching end of the run-way.  Turn to downwind and check the toweror mobile control for green light on base legand final approach for landing clearance.Clench fist and hold it at top of canopy, thenhold up the required number of fingers todenote which  system  is  involved  (see  athrough e below).  If the clenched fist signal isseen but no finger signal is seen or the inter-cepting pilot is unable to understand the signalgiven, the pilot will assume the aircraft in dis-tress has one or more systems inoperable andshould proceed with caution.I Must Land on Your WingIntercepting SignalsRadio FailureRadio Inoperative Landing (No Assist AircraftAvailable)System Failures (HEFOE System)9System Failures (HEFOE System) (Continued) The receiving pilot acknowledges the signalby repeating it:a.  Hydraulic--one fingerb.  Electrical--two fingersc.  Fuel--three fingersd.  Oxygen--four fingerse.  Engine--five fingers Note: For multi-engine aircraft, point to theside, left or right, that corresponds with theengine failure. NOTES:1.  For use only when radio is inoperative or not available.2.  Day visual signals.10Attachment 3NIGHT VISUAL SIGNALSTable A3.1. Night Visual Signals.Intention/ProblemAircraft Emergency (Must Land As Soon AsPossible)Approach End Cable EngagementAttentionChange LeadSignalSignal escort aircraft by repeated intermit-tent flashes with a flashlight, then assume thewing position.  This signal indicates a jetapproach speed of 130 knots.  If a higherapproach speed is desired, the pilot mustpause after the basic signal, and then blinkflashlight at the top of the canopy, once foreach 10-knot increase desired.  The escortpilot will lead to the nearest suitable field,declare an emergency with the controllingagency, then fly a straight-in approach withthe distressed aircraft on the wing.  The dis-tressed aircraft lands and the escort executesa go around. Note: On a straight-in approach, the escortaircraft turns the position lights to bright,or dim and steady as appropriate, to alertthe wingman to prepare to lower fla ps andlanding gear. The corresponding signal ofexecution will be for the lead aircraft toreturn position lights to the original setting.However, if the aircraft is equipped withonly a steady-bright light position, the leadaircraft will blink lights for the alerting sig-nal of execution.Fly parallel to the active runway at 1,000 feetabove field elevation with gear down andflash landing light.  Turn downwind andcheck tower or mobile control for light sig-nal.  If a straight-in cable engagement mustbe flown, flash landing light on final.Attract attention by switching on the landinglight, or other means of illumination.Pilot of distressed aircraft holds flashlightparallel with canopy rail and sends a steadylight while making a straight line from reartoward the front of the canopy.11Descend to Lowest Practical AltitudeElectrical Failure Landing (No Assist AircraftAvailable)Radio InoperativeRadio Inoperative LandingSignal AcknowledgmentMake a rapid vertical movement with aflashlight.Procedure same as prescribed for day visualsignal in Attachment 2.Make a large circular motion with a flash-light.Same as day signal procedures in Attach-ment 2.Point a steady light from the flashlight at thesignaling aircraft.12