BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 MARCH 2016 Operations Support SUPPORT TO THE PROLIFERATION SECURITY INITIATIVE AND COUNTERPROLIFERATION INTERDICTION OPERATIONS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication    OPR:  AF/A10S  Supersedes:  AFI16-607, 25 January 2011  Certified by: AF/A10S  (Richard E. Benson, GS-15) Pages: 7  This  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD Foreign Clearance Program. This Instruction provides guidance and procedures for Air Force implementation of the Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  Instruction  (CJCSI)  5113.03,  Counterproliferation Interdiction  Policy,  and  CJCSI  3520.02B,  Proliferation  Security  Initiative  (PSI)  Activity Program.  This  Instruction  applies  to  all  Air  Force  organizations  and  offices  including  the  Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all  supplements  require  routing  to  the  OPR  for  this  publication  for  coordination  prior  to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/A10S using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System (AFRIMS).  SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  substantially  revised  and  requires  a  complete  review.    It  modifies language to  reflect  Air Force responsibilities stemming from  the publication of CJCSI 5113.03 and  the  updated  publication  of  CJCSI  3520.02B.    Language  changes  include  a  revised publication title. 2 AFI16-607  25 MARCH 2016 1.  Overview.  This to counterproliferation  (CP)-interdiction  operations,  CP-interdiction  execute  order  (EXORD)-related training, exercises, manning, and equipping, as well as support to PSI activities. for  Air  Force guidance publication establishes support 1.1.  Background. 1.1.1.  Conducting  a  CP-interdiction  operation.  CP-interdiction  is  a  proactive  U.S. government  mission  for  deterring,  making  more  costly,  inhibiting,  disrupting,  and preventing trafficking in shipments of proliferation concern.  CP-interdiction consists of stopping proliferation to and by states and non-state actors of proliferation concern.  CP-interdictions  are  usually  conducted  IAW  a  Secretary  of  Defense  (SECDEF)-approved, CP-interdiction  EXORD.    The  Services  support  interagency  and  Combatant  Command (CCMD)  execution  of  CP-interdiction  operations  to  prevent  shipments  of  concern.    Air Force  support  is  focused  primarily  on  air  shipments.    CJCSI  5113.03  provides  general and specific guidance for air counterproliferation interdiction (ACPI) operations.  It also contains definitions of CP-related terms and concepts.   1.1.2.  Security  cooperation  activities  with  Proliferation  Security  Initiative  (PSI) endorsing states to improve capabilities to conduct CP-interdiction operations.  The PSI  is  a  global,  multinational  effort  aiming  to  stop  the  trafficking  of  weapons  of  mass destruction (WMD), their delivery systems, and related materials to and from states and non-state  actors  of  proliferation  concern.    DOD  support  to  PSI  was  established  IAW Secretary  of  Defense  Memorandum  on  U.S.  Military  Support  to  the  Multinational Proliferation Security  Initiative (PSI) Exercise Program  and Related Training, 8  August 2005 and DODD 2060.02, Department of Defense (DOD) Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy.  The U.S. participates in security cooperation with other PSI endorsing states to improve national capabilities to interdict WMD, delivery systems, and related material.  Such security cooperation activities may include planning and execution of  PSI  exercises,  games,  related  training,  meetings,  and  conferences.  CJCSI  3520.02B tasks  the  Joint  Staff,  the  Geographic  Combatant  Commands  (GCCs),  U.S.  Strategic Command  (USSTRATCOM),  U.S.  Transportation  Command,  and  the  Services  to participate in the execution of PSI, including operational, exercise, and training activities.  The Services are tasked to provide planning support, as required; coordinate subordinate organizations’  participation  IAW  plans  and  procedures;  provide  support  to  Service operational elements, to include CCMD components, and the Joint Staff during exercise planning and execution, as required; provide necessary operations, communications, and logistics support IAW established procedures; and participate as observers or controllers during exercises, as required.  2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) is  the  Air  Force  single  point  of  contact  for  issues  regarding  the  implementation  of  CJCSI 3520.02B as authorized in DODD 2060.02.  2.1.1.  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Strategic  Deterrence  and  Nuclear  Integration (AF/A10) will: 2.1.1.1.  Coordinate  Air  Force  implementation  of  CJCSI  5113.03  and  CJCSI 3520.02B,  synchronizing  and  integrating  Air  Force  support,  to  include  Major AFI16-607  25 MARCH 2016 3 (MAJCOM)  activities. Command in  Joint  Staff,  OSD,  and USSTRATCOM  Center  for  Combating  WMD  planning  activities  as  required  to ensure adequate Air Force support.  Support may include participation in workshops, meetings, and planning conferences.   Participate 2.1.1.2.  Provide  support the  National  Air  &  Space  Intelligence  Center (NASIC)/Civil  Aviation  Intelligence  Analysis  Center  (CAIAC)  on  ACPI-related issues. to 2.1.1.3.  Provide  planning  support  to  Joint  Staff  and  the  USSTRATCOM  Center  for Combating  WMD for  PSI  consultations, demonstrations, exercises, and training activities involving ACPI scenarios. (SCC-WMD)  PSI  Support  Cell 2.1.1.4.  Participate,  as  required, in  PSI  workshops,  meetings,  and  planning conferences, and provide trip reports to CAIAC and MAJCOMs for their situational awareness. 2.2.  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance (AF/A2)  will  serve  as  the  Air  Force  single  point  of  contact  for  issues  regarding  the implementation  of  CJCSI  5113.03  and  plan  and  provide  execution  support  for  ACPI EXORD-related activities, IAW CJCSI 5113.03. 2.2.1.  CAIAC Director will: 2.2.1.1.  Review the CAIAC  role and responsibilities IAW applicable EXORDs and advise AF/A10S of proposed changes to advocate before the Joint Staff, SCC-WMD, the  Combating  Weapons  of  Mass  Destruction  Coordination  Group  (CCG)  Strategy, Plans, Policy, and Doctrine (SPPD) subcommittee, and the CCG Executive Council. 2.2.1.2.  Coordinate  with  Joint  Staff  and  other  U.S.  departments  and  agencies  as required on intelligence matters supporting DODD 2060.02 requirements and CJCSI 5113.03 policy. 2.2.1.3.  Provide  representation  to  PSI  workshops,  planning  meetings,  and  planning conferences for ACPI and PSI activities, as required. 2.2.1.4.  Coordinate with operational elements of other U.S. Government agencies, as required. 2.3.  The Department of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC), in coordination with The Judge  Advocate  General  (TJAG)  will  provide  legal  advice  relating  to  CP-interdiction operations and PSI activities. 2.4.  MAJCOM Commanders will:  2.4.1.  Provide planning support and forces, as required, to support CCMD participation in  PSI activities.  Activities may include Stand-Alone PSI Exercises (e.g., field  training exercises, tabletops, command post exercises), PSI Exercise Injects, and other PSIrelated events, as required. 2.4.2.  Program  operations  and  maintenance  funds,  and  steady  state  Military  Personnel Appropriation man-days to support PSI activities, as required. 4 AFI16-607  25 MARCH 2016 2.4.3.  Coordinate  with  CCMDs intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, and other required Air Force resources are available to support exercises and operations, as real world conditions allow. to  plan  and  ensure  strategic lift, 2.4.4.  Assist subordinate units in supporting PSI activities, as required. 3.  Reporting. 3.1.  AF/A10 and MAJCOMs participating in PSI activities will ensure all appropriate after-action  reporting  and  assessments  are  posted  on  appropriate  security  cooperation  databases such as the Air Force Security Cooperation Knowledgebase.  JACK WEINSTEIN, Lt Gen, USAF DCS, Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration AFI16-607  25 MARCH 2016 5 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References OSD Policy and Guidance Secretary of Defense Memorandum on U.S. Military Support to the Multinational Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) Exercise Program and Related Training, 8 August 2005 DODD 2060.02, Department of Defense (DOD) Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy, 19 April 2007 DOD Strategy for Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, June 2014 CJCS Policy and Guidance CJCSI 3520.02B, Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) Activity Program, 5 March 2015 CJCSI 5113.03, Counterproliferation Interdiction Policy, 25 September 2012 (S/NF) Air Counterproliferation Interdiction (ACPI) EXORD, DTG: 022120Z May 13 (S) AF Policy and Guidance AF Global Partnership Strategy, December 2011 AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010 AFPD 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Enterprise, 17 June 2015 AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 27 March 2015 AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, International Arms Control and Non-Proliferation Agreements, 18 February 2011 (incorporating through Change 2, 6 August 2014) AFI 16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 9 June 2011 (certified current 3 September 2014) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACPI —Air Counterproliferation Interdiction AF/A2 —Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance AF/A10 —Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration AF/A10S —Air Force Strategic Stability and CWMD Division AFI —Air Force Instruction 6 AFI16-607  25 MARCH 2016 AFPD —Air Force Policy Directive CAIAC —Civil Aviation Intelligence Analysis Center CCG —Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction Coordination Group CCMD —Combatant Command CP —Counterproliferation DOD —Department of Defense DODD —Department of Defense Directive EC —Executive Council EXORD —Execute Order GCC —Geographic Combatant Command IAW – In accordance with MAJCOM – Major Command NASIC —National Air & Space Intelligence Center OEG —Operational Experts Group OPR —Office of Primary Responsibility OSD —Office of the Secretary of Defense OSD(P) —Office of the Secretary of Defense for Policy PSI —Proliferation Security Initiative SAF —Secretary of the Air Force SAF/GC —Department of the Air Force General Counsel SECDEF —Secretary of Defense SCC-WMD —U.S. Strategic Command Center for Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction TJAG —The Judge Advocate General USAF —United States Air Force USSTRATCOM —U.S. Strategic Command WMD —Weapons of Mass Destruction Terms Air  Component  Command―—A  command  consisting  of  the air  component  commander  and all forces (individuals, units, detachments, organizations, and installations) under that command, including the support forces that have been assigned to a combatant command or further assigned to a subordinate unified command or joint task force. Counterproliferation―—Those  actions  taken  to  defeat  the  threat  and/or  use  of  weapons  of mass destruction against the United States, our forces, allies, and partners. AFI16-607  25 MARCH 2016 7 Nonproliferation―—Those  actions  (diplomacy,  arms  control,  multilateral  agreements,  threat reduction assistance, and export controls) taken to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction  by  dissuading  or  impeding  access  to,  or  distribution  of,  sensitive  technologies, material, and expertise. Operational  Experts  Group―  —The  OEG  sets  the  strategic  direction  for  PSI  and  is responsible  for  outreach  within  PSI,  as  well  as  to  potential  endorsing  states,  international organizations, industry, civil society, and the public.  The OEG convenes annual, action-oriented meetings to address all of the diplomatic, law enforcement, and military elements associated with interdiction  activities.    States  become  OEG  members  based  on  their  political  importance, involvement  in  international  shipping,  or  the  strength  of  their  commitment  to  nonproliferation norms.  They are leaders in their respective regions in preventing the proliferation of WMD and their means of delivery.  Regional OEG members should be invited to all PSI exercises in their region and can provide a depth and breadth of interdiction experience to enrich these activities.  OSD(P) heads the U.S. delegation to the OEG.  Currently, 21 PSI-endorsing states comprise the OEG.    Strong  roles  for  OEG  nations  at  PSI  activities  also  assist  in  preventing  an  overly prominent U.S. role and highlight the truly multilateral nature of PSI. Performance  Indicators―—Quantitative and qualitative means of assessment that provide an agency the means by which it can internally monitor and evaluate its own efforts to identify areas needing  improvement  and  assessing  the  quality  of  performance  of  ongoing  and  completed activities over time. Proliferation Network―—A proliferation network includes the relational connections made by proliferators, brokers, front companies, and end-users to transport proliferation-related shipments from a source country to the end-user without being detected. (CJCSI 5113.03). PSI  Exercises―—There  are  two  types  of  PSI  exercises:  Stand-Alone  PSI  Exercises  and  PSI Exercise Injects.  Mission permitting, combatant commanders should be prepared to support both types of exercises.  A Stand-Alone PSI Exercise features PSI and CP-interdiction as the central focus of the Exercise and may include Field Training Exercise (FTX), Tabletop Exercise (TTX), or other components and may involve the maritime, air, and/or overland  transport domains.  A PSI Exercise Inject involves a PSI or CP-interdiction scenario that is contained within a broader exercise, such as the CP-interdiction scenarios that are routinely included in the USSOUTHCOM exercise  PANAMAX.    Other  PSI-related  events  include  OEG  meetings,  PSI  key  industry workshops, and discussions at such fora as think tanks and seminars. Weapons  of  Mass  Destruction  (WMD)―—Chemical,  biological,  radiological,  or  nuclear weapons  capable  of  a  high  order  of  destruction  or  causing  mass  casualties,  but  excluding  the means  of  transporting  or  propelling  the  weapon  where  such  means  is  a  separable  and  divisible part from the weapon. WMD  Delivery  Systems―—Equipment, material, and related technologies usable for systems capable of delivering WMD. WMD  Related  Materials―—Technical  expertise,  materials,  and  sophisticated  dual-use technology that can be used in the development of WMD.  