BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-113 13 AUGUST 2015       Certified Current 25 March 2016Operations Support USAF ATTACHÉ PROGRAM COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication OPR:   SAF/IAPA Supersedes: AFI16-113, 6 September 2011 Certified by: SAF/IAP (Mr. Anthony P. Reardon) Pages: 13 This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  16-1,  International  Affairs,  and  is consistent  with  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Directive  (DoDD)  5205.75,  Department  of Defense  Operations  at  U.S.  Embassies;  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  C-5105.32,  Defense  Attaché Service  (DAS);  and  DoDI  C-5105.81,  Implementing  Instructions  for  DoD  Operations  at  U.S. Embassies.   It  provides specific  guidance for establishing and sustaining  the Air Force Attaché Program.  This Air Force Instruction (AFI) applies to all active and reserve component Air Force personnel  involved  in  the  United  States  Air  Force  (USAF)  Attaché  Program.    This  publication does not apply to the Air National Guard.  This AFI may not be supplemented at any level.  Send all recommended changes or comments about this publication to the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs, Policy, Programming and Strategic Directorate, International Airmen  Division  (SAF/IAPA),  1080  Air  Force-Pentagon,  Washington  DC  20330  or  email  at usaf.pentagon.saf-ia.mbx.saf-iapa-attache-workflow@mail.mil, appropriate channels, using AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication. through Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  publications/forms managers.  Submit waiver requests for requirements contained in this instruction to SAF/IAPA. Records Management:  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of  IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule in the Air Force Records Information Management System.   2  AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  contains  minor  administrative  changes  to  include  eliminating  wing  (or equivalent)  and  below  Compliance  Statements  in  accordance  with  the  Headquarters  Air  Force directed  Compliance  Statement  Review.    References  are  updated  and  the  Defense  Attaché System   The  documents Application/Selection  and  DAS  Tour  Curtailments  also  received  minor  changes  to  improve communication.  to  Defense  Attaché  Service (DAS). (DAS) is  changed AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015   3  Chapter 1 PROGRAM DESCRIPTION 1.1.  Overview.  The DoD DAS is administered by the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).  The Deputy  Under Secretary of the Air Force,  International  Affairs  (SAF/IA) is  responsible for the oversight and program management of the USAF Attaché Program.  The USAF Attaché Program office  within  SAF/IAPA  manages  the  screening,  selection,  assignment,  and  support  for  active duty Air Force officer and enlisted personnel filling DAS positions in our U.S. Embassies around the world.  DIA also maintains Air Force Reserve Attaché and operations support positions in the DAS as Individual Mobilization Augmentees of DIA’s Joint Reserve Unit. 1.2.  Officer Positions.  Attaché positions are filled by officers in the grade of O-4 through O-8 and  include  Senior  Defense  Official/Defense  Attaché  (SDO/DATT),  Air  Attaché  (AIRA),  and Assistant Air Attaché (A/AIRA).  Attachés represent the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Geographic Combatant Commander  (GCC),  Combatant  Command  (COCOM),  and  provide  critical  advice  on  bilateral political-military issues to the U.S. Ambassador and Country Team.  Attachés serve as embassy liaison  with  host-nation  defense  establishments,  openly  observe  and  report  developments  and significant  events,  and  actively  participate  in  national  security  and  operational  policy development and coordination.  They build and sustain key international relationships that enable DoD  global  operations  and  directly  support  overseas  contingency  operations.    Attachés  are selected  from  most  line  officer  career  specialties,  and  in  general,  an  operations  background, foreign  language  skills,  experience  in  the  region,  and  working  in  or  with  intelligence  are  all highly desired for attaché candidates. 1.3.  Enlisted  Positions.  Attaché  support  positions  include  Operations  Coordinator  (OPSCO); Operations  Non-Commissioned  Officer  (OPSNCO);  and  Airborne  Mission  Technician  (AMT).  They are special-duty positions filled by enlisted personnel in the grade of E-5 through E-9, who manage all operational support aspects of the Defense Attaché Office (DAO) mission.  Attaché support  duties  include  managing  logistics  and  administrative  support;  executing  budget requirements;  working  country,  personnel,  aircraft,  and  ship  clearances;  supervising  foreign national  office staff;  and direct  support of very important  person (VIP) visits.   Attaché support personnel  need to  be self-starters who are  flexible, persuasive,  and persistent.  Attaché support duty  is  open  to  all  Air  Force  Specialty  Code’s  (AFSC),  capitalizing  on  the  wide  range  of professional expertise in the USAF enlisted corps. 1.4.  Screening  and  Selection.  As  a  high  visibility,  special-duty  assignment,  the  selection process for DAS duty is very thorough.  Screening typically starts two to three years prior to the required reporting date on station.  Candidates are nominated by the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), the Air Force Colonel’s Management Office (AF/DPO), or the Air Force Chief Master Sergeant  Management  Office  (AF/DPE)  to  SAF/IAPA.    This  process  includes  extensive documentation requirements, interviews, and (for attachés only) approval  by a USAF Selection Panel.  The selection panel typically consists of representatives from SAF/IA; Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2); and DIA.  Note:  General officer  attaché  screening  and  selection  is  accomplished  by  the  Air  Force  General  Officer Management Office (AF/DPG).   4  AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015 1.5.  Attaché  Training.  Preparation  of  attaché  and  attaché-support  designees  for  duty  in  the DAS normally involves a lengthy training period including DIA’s Joint Military Attaché School (JMAS), language training, attaché “consultations and briefings (Cs and Bs),” and for some, the Defense  Institute  of  Security  Assistance  Management.    Spouses  of  attaché  and  attaché-support designees  may  also  attend  formal  language  training  and  attend  the  JMAS  spouse  orientation course. AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015   5  Chapter 2 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 2.1.  General Eligibility Requirements.  Airmen are considered eligible if they are qualified in a primary Air Force career specialty, remain eligible for worldwide deployment or assignment, and are eligible for security clearance upgrades. 2.1.1.  Officer  Requirements.    AIRA  duty  (AFSC  16F4A)  is  open  to  Air  Force  officers  in grades  O-4  through  O-8.    Attaché  duty  is  a  developmental  assignment  for  the  International Affairs  Specialist  (IAS)  Regional  Affairs  Strategist  (RAS)  career  path.    Therefore,  officers selected through the RAS Program serve as the primary attaché candidate selection pool.  See AFI 16-109, International Affairs Specialist (IAS) Program for more information on the IAS and RAS Program.  Other pre-requisites include: 2.1.1.1.  Be in the grade of O-4/O-4(Select) or above. 2.1.1.2.  Have  a  record  of  military  service  that  shows  overall  outstanding  performance, competence  and  proficiency  in  the  officer’s  primary  career  specialty,  and  the  ability  to work well with others. 2.1.1.3.  Be a citizen of the United States and be free of any family, commercial, or other connections with the applicable country that could potentially interfere with the ability to successfully  carry  out  the  DAS  assignment.    Family  members  are  only  allowed  to accompany sponsors to station if they qualify for U.S. Diplomatic passports. 2.1.1.4.  Have  a  Defense  Language  Aptitude  Battery  (DLAB)  score  equal  to  or  greater than the position requirements.  Proficiency in the language of the country for which the individual is being considered, validated by a current Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) and/or Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) is highly desired. 2.1.2.  Enlisted Requirements.  Attaché support duty as an OPSCO, and OPSNCO is open to all  enlisted  career  fields  as  a  special-duty  assignment  in  AFSC  8P100/Defense  Attaché Specialist.    Attaché  support  duty  as  an  AMT  is  open  to  all  enlisted  personnel  in  AFSC 2A571/Aerospace  Maintenance.    AMTs  responsibilities  include  performing  in-flight  duties.  Specific pre-requisites include: 2.1.2.1.  Be in the grade of E-5 or above and possess a 7-skill level. 2.1.2.2.  Have  a  record  of  military  service  that  shows  overall  outstanding  performance, competence and proficiency in the member’s primary career specialty, and the ability to work well with others. 2.1.2.3.  Be a citizen of the United States and be free of any family, commercial, or other connections with the applicable country that could potentially interfere with the ability to successfully  carry  out  the  DAS  assignment.    Family  members  are  only  allowed  to accompany sponsors to station if they qualify for U.S. Diplomatic passports. 2.1.2.4.  Possess  or  obtain  a  DLAB  score  equal  to  or  greater  than  the  position requirements.    Proficiency  in  the  language  of  the  country  for  which  the  individual  is being considered, validated by a current DLPT and/or OPI is highly desired.   6  AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015 2.1.3.  Security Requirements.  All Airmen require eligibility for a Top Secret (TS) Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) security clearance, and prior to reporting to DIA for duty, have a security clearance based on a current (within the last five  years) special background investigation  (SBI).    Personnel  are  also  required  to  pass  a  counterintelligence  polygraph examination  per  the  requirements  of  DoD  Instruction  5210.91,  Polygraph  and  Credibility Assessment (PCA) Procedures. 2.1.4.  Medical  Requirements.    All  Airmen  and  accompanying  family  members  require  a comprehensive physical  examination and gain  medical  and  educational  clearance  IAW AFI 40-701,  Medical  Support  to  Family  Member  Relocation  and  Exceptional  Family  Member Program  (EFMP)  as  part  of  the  screening  selection  process.    Medical  and  educational clearances  need  to  be  re-validated  and  approved  within  8-months  of  reporting  to  overseas assignment.  2A571s applying for AMT special duty assignments are also required to pass a Class 3 flight physical. 2.2.  Application and Selection.  Airmen apply for attaché duty through the appropriate AFPC, Colonel’s Group or the  Chief’s Group assignments  team.   General  officer attaché positions are typically  rotational  positions  among  the  Services,  and  USAF  nominations  are  handled  directly between the AF/DPG, the Joint Staff, and DIA. 2.2.1.  Colonel  Application  and  Selection.    Colonels  and  Colonel-selects  can  volunteer  for attaché duty (AFSC 16F4A) through AF/DPO.  Colonel attaché selection is typically done in conjunction  with  the  AF/DPO  gameplan  process;  however,  some  out-of-cycle  requirements are  filled  outside  of  the  gameplan  window.    As  needed,  AF/DPO  also  identifies  a  non-volunteer candidate if a qualified volunteer is unavailable.  As part of the selection process, the attaché candidate and their spouse (if available) participate in an interview panel process conducted  by  SAF/IAPA.    This  General  Officer/Senior  Executive  Service-chaired  USAF panel  determines  suitability  for  attaché  duty  and  forms  the  basis  for  the  SAF/IA  approved nomination to DIA. 2.2.2.  Lieutenant  Colonel  and  Major  Application  and  Selection.    Lieutenant  Colonels  and Majors  can  volunteer  for  attaché  duty  (AFSC  16F4A)  through  the  AFPC  IAS  Assignments Team  by  filling  out  an  attaché  application  package  (available  from  the  IAS  Assignments Team website) and gaining release from their Core Career Field Assignments Team at AFPC.  As needed, AFPC assigns a non-volunteer officer (typically a RAS) if a qualified volunteer is unavailable.    As  part  of  the  selection  process,  the  attaché  candidate  and  their  spouse  (if available) participate in an interview panel process conducted by SAF/IAPA.  This General officer/Senior Executive Service-chaired USAF panel determines suitability for attaché duty and forms the basis for the SAF/IA approved nomination to DIA. 2.2.3.  Chief  Master  Sergeant  Application  and  Selection.    Chief  Master  Sergeants  volunteer for  attaché  duty  via  the  Assignment  Management  System’s  (AMS)  Equal  Plus  Assignment Listing  at  the  AFPC  Secure  website.    Positions  are  advertised  as  AFSC  8P1X0  and instructions  to  volunteer  are  self-explanatory.    AF/DPE  determines  the  most  eligible candidate, and as needed, also identifies a non-volunteer candidate if a qualified volunteer is unavailable.  As part of the selection process, SAF/IAPA screens the candidate to determine suitability for attaché support duty and provides USAF approval of the nomination to DIA. 2.2.4.  Staff  Sergeant  through  Senior  Master  Sergeant  Application  and  Selection.    Staff Sergeants  through  Senior  Master  Sergeants  volunteer  for  attaché  duty  via  the  AMS  Equal AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015   7  Plus  Assignment  Listing  at  the  AFPC  Secure  website.    Positions  are  advertised  as  AFSC 8P1X0  and  2A5X1,  and  instructions  to  volunteer  are  self-explanatory.    8P1X0  volunteers also  complete  an  application  package  (available  at  the  Attaché  AF  Portal  website).  SAF/IAPA  in  coordination  with  AFPC  determines  the  most  eligible  candidate,  and  as needed, AFPC identifies a non-volunteer candidate if a qualified volunteer is unavailable.  As part  of  the  selection  process,  SAF/IAPA  screens  the  candidate  to  determine  suitability  for attaché support duty and provides USAF approval of the nomination to DIA. 2.3.  DAS Tour Curtailments, Tour Extensions, and Back-to-Back Tour Fill Rates. 2.3.1.  Curtailments.  DAS assignments are sensitive, high visibility positions – gaps of any kind impact DoD and Service missions.  Attachés and attaché support personnel are expected to  remain  on  station  through  their  Date  Eligible  for  Return  from  Overseas  (DEROS).  Requests for tour curtailments are considered by DIA and the USAF on a case-by-case basis with significant justification.  For those retiring or separating, departure prior to DEROS for terminal  leave and Permissive Temporary Duty (PTDY) are  closely scrutinized and usually not  supported, unless the replacement  is  able to  arrive on station to  execute the appropriate turnover and prevent a gap. 2.3.2.  Extensions.  The Air Force considers tour extensions on a case-by-case basis, if also supported  by  DIA.    Extensions  for  tours  of  24-month  or  less  are  typically  not  considered unless it is programmed at the onset of attaché training.  Extensions are normally limited to four years total on station. 2.3.3.  Back-to-Back  DAS  Tours.    The  Air  Force  considers  back-to-back  DAS  tours  on  a case-by-case basis, if also supported by DIA.  For attachés, back-to-back tours are typically not supported without significant mission justification.  Attaché support personnel, with the approval of their primary career field manager, are typically considered for no more than one back-to-back tour in  the  DAS before returning to their primary career  field, or serving in  a SAF/IA headquarters assignment. 2.3.4.  Due  to  the  critical  nature  of  the  DAS  to  national  security,  the  DoD,  and  Air  Force international relations and engagements, Air Force officers and NCO billets in the DAS are filled as close to 100 percent as possible.   8  AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015 Chapter 3 RESPONSIBILITIES 3.1.  Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA  ) executes the USAF  Attaché  Program  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  serves  as  Functional Authority  for  the  Attaché  Program.    The  SAF/IA  Director  of  Policy  manages  development  of policy,  plans,  and  guidelines  for  USAF  international  programs  and  SAF/IAPA  serves  as  the Functional Manager for the Attaché Program.  Specifically SAF/IA: 3.1.1.  Performs day-to-day management and administration of the Attaché Program. 3.1.2.  Coordinates  USAF  attaché  and  SDO/DATT  personnel  requisition  requirements  with DIA. 3.1.3.  Verifies  attaché  education,  training,  experience,  and  qualifications  meet  DIA personnel requisition requirements. 3.1.4.  Performs screening and selection, and nominate attaché and SDO/DATT candidates in response to personnel requisitions reflecting the authorizations of the DAS Joint Manpower Plan  (JMP)  or  the  Security  Cooperation  Organization  (SCO)  billets  found  on  the  COCOM JMPs. 3.1.5.  Provides  USAF  personnel  performance  rating  scheme  that  enables  both  the Geographic Combatant Commander (GCC) and the Director, DIA to rate the SDO/DATT. 3.1.6.  Maintains fiscal and budgetary oversight for all attaché program-related items. 3.1.7.  Collaborates  with  SAF/IAPA’s  IAS  Program  to  project  future  attaché  language, culture,  and  training  requirements  in  order  to  maximize  utilization  of  RAS  officers  for attaché duty. 3.1.8.  Sponsors and coordinates regional AIRA Forums. 3.2.  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC):  Is responsible for identifying potential officer and enlisted  candidates  for  duty  in  the  DAS,  as  reflected  on  DIA  and  COCOM  manpower requisitions provided through SAF/IAPA. 3.3.  Air  Force  Chief  Master  Sergeants  Management  Office  (AF/DPE):  Is  responsible  for identifying potential Chief Master Sergeant candidates for duty in the DAS, as reflected on DIA manpower requisitions provided through SAF/IAPA. 3.4.  Air Force Colonel Management Office (AF/DPO): Is responsible for identifying potential Colonel  candidates  for  duty  in  the  DAS,  as  reflected  on  DIA  and  COCOM  manpower requisitions provided through SAF/IAPA. 3.5.  Air Force General Officer Management Office (AF/DPG): Is responsible for identifying potential  General  officer  candidates  for  duty  in  the  DAS,  as  reflected  on  Joint  General  Officer Management  manpower  requisitions.  General  officer  nominations  are  coordinated  directly between AF/DPG and the Joint General Officer Management Office. 3.6.  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance (AF/A2):  Supports  the  SAF/IA  Attaché  Program  through  participation  in  selection  panels,  and by providing Cs and Bs. AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015   9  3.7.  Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA): Is responsible pursuant to DoDI C-5105.  32, Defense Attaché  Service  for  providing  SAF/IA  personnel  requisitions  in  support  of  DAS  positions,  and participates in SAF/IA Attaché Program selection panels. 3.8.  Duties and Responsibilities of Air Force Personnel Assigned to the DAS: 3.8.1.  SDO/DATT  responsibilities  are  outlined  in  DoDD  5205.75,  Department  of  Defense Operations  at  U.S.  Embassies  and  DoDI  C-5105.81,  Implementing  Instructions  for Department of Defense Operations at U.S. Embassies. 3.8.1.1.  SDO/DATTs  serve  as  the  Defense  Attaché  and  Chief  of  Security  Cooperation under  the  joint  oversight  and  administrative  management  of  the  Under  Secretary  of Defense  for  Policy  and  the  Undersecretary  of  Defense  for  Intelligence  through  the Directors, Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) and DIA, in coordination with the GCC.  They act as in-country focal point for planning, coordinating, supporting, and executing U.S. defense issues and activities in the host nation, including Theater Security Cooperation  programs  under  the  oversight  of  the  GCC.    SDO/DATTs  also  serve  as  the principal embassy liaison with host nation defense establishments and actively participate in national security and operational policy development and coordination. 3.8.2.  AIRAs  and  A/AIRAs  represent  the  Secretary  and  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  to host  nation  government  officials.    In  this  role,  AIRAs  and  A/AIRAs  are  charged  with developing  and  maintaining  harmonious  and  cooperative  relationships  between  the  USAF and the host-nation air force and establishing an environment conducive to the achievement of  national  objectives.    Diplomatic  representational  activities  are  to  be  conducted  in accordance  with  the  guidance  provided  by  the  Chief  of  Mission  (COM).    These  activities should  be  designed  to  foster  relationships  between  the  host  nation  and  U.S.  military  and defense establishments and should enhance the status of the AIRA and A/AIRA as an advisor to the COM.  Specific duties required of the AIRA and A/AIRA include: 3.8.2.1.  Support  of  official  visits representatives. to  your  host  country  by  U.S.  Government 3.8.2.2.  Processing  aircraft  diplomatic  clearances,  coordinate  combined  military exercises with U.S. involvement, and facilitate military-to-military contact programs. 3.8.2.3.  Providing  assistance  for  prominent  recurring  ceremonial  functions  and  provide ambassadorial and dignitary escorts. 3.8.2.4.  Use of quarters for representational and specific-event entertainment. 3.8.2.5.  Relay of correspondence between DoD and the host nation government. 3.8.2.6.  Observing  and  reporting  military  information  to  support  U.S.  national  decision makers,  focusing  on  emerging  regional  priorities  associated  with  the  dynamic  global security environment. 3.8.2.7.  Providing  advice  and  expertise  on  USAF  matters  to  the  U.S.  COM  and  the Country  Team.    In  this  role,  the  AIRA  and  A/AIRA  provide  an  objective  view  of  the capabilities, limitations, and intentions of the air forces of the host nation and their impact on relations with the United States and the functions of the diplomatic mission.   10  AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015 3.8.2.8.  The  AIRA  is  also  the  principal  advisor  to  the  SDO/DATT  and  COM  on  the capabilities of the USAF. 3.8.2.9.  Conducting  C-12  flying  operations  according  to  DIAI  3205.001  volume  3, Defense  Attaché  Aircraft,  Attaché  and  Security  Cooperation  Flight  Operations:  C-12 Flight Operations. 3.8.2.10.  When  designated  by  DoD  and  in  accordance  with  the  DSCA,  Security Assistance  Management  Manual  (http://www.samm.dsca.mil/)  perform  the  security cooperation mission. 3.8.3.  OPSCOs represent the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force to the host nation government  officials.    In  this  role,  OPSCOs  are  charged  with  developing  and  maintaining harmonious  and  cooperative  relationships  between  the  USAF  and  the  host  nation  air  force.  Specific duties required of the Operations Coordinator include: 3.8.3.1.  Providing  day-to-day  office  management  of  the  USDAO  and  other  duties  as assigned by the SDO/DATT. 3.8.3.2.  Providing  overall  operational,  financial,  administrative,  and  logistical  advice  to the SDO/DATT, Service attachés, and USDAO support staff. 3.8.3.3.  Acting as the primary action officer to embassy and mission support offices. 3.8.3.4.  Providing supervision of assigned military and civilian personnel as determined by supervisory chain. 3.8.3.5.  Acting as the program manager for DIA’s budget and the disbursement of funds within the USDAO. 3.8.3.6.  Providing oversight and management of DIA’s reporting requirements. 3.8.3.7.  Supporting information exchange and collection management programs. 3.8.4.  OPSNCOs  represent  the  Secretary  and  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  to  the  host nation  government  officials.    In  this  role,  OPSNCOs  are  charged  with  developing  and maintaining harmonious and cooperative relationships between the USAF and the host nation air force.  Specific duties required of the OPSNCO include: 3.8.4.1.  Preparing office reports in accordance with DIA policy and regulations. 3.8.4.2.  Coordinating clearances and provide support for transiting aircraft and aircrews and for U.S. Navy ship visits. 3.8.4.3.  Coordinating personnel clearances for visiting DoD personnel. 3.8.4.4.  Preparing  office recommendations. correspondence,  personnel evaluations, and award 3.8.4.5.  Preparing  travel  vouchers,  temporary  lodging  allowance  claims,  along  with emergency and extraordinary expense authority vouchers and claims. 3.8.4.6.  Supporting information exchange and collection management programs. 3.8.5.  AMTs  represent  the  Secretary  and  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  to  the  nation government  officials.    In  this  role,  AMTs  are  charged  with  developing  and  maintaining AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015   11  harmonious  and  cooperative  relationships  between  the  USAF  and  the  host  nation  air  force.  Specific duties required of the AMT include: 3.8.5.1.  Performing  in-flight  and  safety  scanning  duties,  basic  maintenance,  aircraft servicing,  and  engine  and  taxi  operations  to  ensure  a  safe,  operational  and  reliable mission aircraft. 3.8.5.2.  Operating, maintaining, and securing all in-flight equipment. 3.8.5.3.  Responsible  for  DIA  mission  reporting,  maintenance  reporting,  diplomatic clearances,  passenger  safety  briefing,  aircraft  records,  payment  documents,  and  cash payment requirements. 3.8.5.4.  Maintaining  current  regulations,  technical  orders,  and  flight  publications  and ensure flight planning and weight balance software are current on the mission computer. 3.8.5.5.  Serving  as maintenance contract IAW DIA guidelines. the  designated  On-Site  Government  Representative  for the 3.8.5.6.  Fling on all operational missions as determined by the mission commander. 3.8.5.7.  Serving as primary custodian responsible for all aircraft related Communications Security (COMSEC) equipment, to include loading of Mode IV Identification, Friend or Foe (IFF). 3.8.5.8.  Acting as the primary custodian for DoD Account Activity Code and Technical Order Distribution Office accounts. 3.8.5.9.  Serving  as  the  Safety  NCO  to  help  identify  and  mitigate  hazards  to  safe operation of the C-12. 3.8.5.10.  Performing OPSNCO duties when not accomplishing aircraft related duties.  HEIDI H. GRANT Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force International Affairs   12  AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 16-109, International Affairs Specialist (IAS) Program, September 3, 2010. AFI 40-701, Medical Support to Family Member Relocation and Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP), November 19, 2014 AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, November 2, 2009 DIAI 3205.001 Volume 3, Defense Attaché Aircraft, Attaché and Security Cooperation Flight Operations: C-12 Flight Operations, April 18, 2011 DoD Directive 5205.75, Department of Defense Operations at U.S. Embassies, December 4, 2013 DoD Instruction C-5105.32, Defense Attaché Service (DAS), March 18, 2009 (Certified Current through March 18, 2016 and Incorporating Change 2, effective May 9, 2014) DoD Instruction C-5105.81, Implementing Instructions for Department of Defense Operations at U.S. Embassies, November 6, 2008. DoD Instruction 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Procedures, August 12, 2010 (Incorporating Change 1, effective October 15, 2013) Abbreviation and Acronyms AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code AIRA—Air Attaché A/AIRA—Assistant Air Attaché AMS—Assignment Management System AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AF/DPO—Air Force Colonel Management Office AF/DPE—Air Force Chief Master Sergeant Management Office AF/DPG—Air Force General Officer Management Office AMT—Airborne Mission Technician COM—Chief of Mission COMSEC—Communications Security DAO—Defense Attaché Office DAS—Defense Attaché Service DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency DEROS—Date Eligible to Return from Overseas DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency AFI16-113  13 AUGUST 2015   13  DLAB—Defense Language Aptitude Battery DLPT—Defense Language Proficiency Test DoD—Department of Defense GCC—Geographic Combatant Commander IAS—International Affairs Specialist IAW—In Accordance With OPSNCO—Operations Noncommissioned Officer OPSCO—Operations Coordinator PTDY—Permissive Temporary Duty RAS—Regional Affairs Strategists SAF/IA— Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs SAF/IAPA—  Deputy  Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  International  Affairs,  Policy, Programming and Strategic Directorate, International Airmen Division SBI—Special Background Investigation SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information SDO/DATT—Senior Defense Official/Defense Attaché TS—Top Secret USAF—United States Air Force USDAO—United States Defense Attaché Office VIP—Very Important Person  