BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-120 9 DECEMBER 2015 Intelligence TACTICS ANALYSIS AND REPORTING PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE  WITH  THIS PUBLICATION  IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:    Publications  and forms  are available  on the e-Publishing  website  at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading  or ordering. RELEASABILITY:   There  are no releasability  restrictions  on this  publication.    OPR:  ACC/A2  Supersedes:  AFI 14-120, 6 January  2006  Certified  by:  AF/A2D   (Brig  Gen Thomas  W. Geary) Pages:  14  This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  14-1,  Air  Force  Intelligence Planning,  Resources,  and  Operations.    It  defines  program  management  and  procedures  for  the Air Force (AF) Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program (TARP).  This public ation applies to all Regular  Air  Force  (RegAF),  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR),  Air  National  Guard  (ANG),  and Department of the Air Force Civilians supporting this program.  ANG is considered functionally as  a  major  command  (MAJCOM)  for  the  purposes  of  this  instr uction.    Ensure  that  all  records created as a result of processes prescribed  in this publication are  maintained  in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual  (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW  Air Force Records Disposition Schedule  located  in the  Air Force  Records  Information Management System.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.  This publication  may be supplemented at any  level, but all direct supplements are to be  routed  to  the  OPR  of  this  publication  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.  MAJCOMs need to provide a copy to the OPR once published.  IAW Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360,  Publication  and  Forms  Management,  the  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following the compliance statement.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered  compliance  items. 2 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES risk  of  non-compliance. This publication has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  It adds risk factors, known as  “tiers”  to tasks assigned to organizations below MAJCOM  level  to depict the assessed to MAJCOM/Numbered Air Forces  (NAF)  Tactics  Analysis  Teams (TATs);  the elimination of the list  of  supporting  Tactics  and  Adversary  Studies  Elements  (TASEs)  and  Tactics  Analysis Conferences  (TACs);  and  the  standup  of  Twenty-Fifth  (25  AF)  and  its  subordination  to  Air Combat  Command  (ACC). reference  updates   Major  changes include:  AFI14-120  9 DECEMBER 2015 3 Chapter  1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  The primary  mission of the TARP is to provide analysis and evaluation of operational tactics,  training,  and  e mployment  of  air,  air  defense,  space,  and  cyberspace  forces  of potential  adversaries.  TARP  information  is  presented  with  an  operational  perspective  to support  tactics  development,  operational  planning,  and threat  replication  training. 1.2.  Forums,  Committees  and  Working  Groups. 1.2.1.  Tactics  Analysis  Team  (TAT).    A  TAT  is  a  team  of  intelligence  and  operations personnel  appointed  by  the  MAJCOM/NAF  that  support  to  the  activities  conducted  within the  AOR/AOI by analyzing  and  documenting  adversary  tactics  intelligence. 1.2.2.  Tactics  Analysis  Team  Working  Group.    TAT  Working  Group  meetings  provide timely  analysis  and  reporting  on  notable  adversary  tactics,  or  analyze  specific,  narrowly focused  topics.  Members are  typically a subset of  the  TAT, and their  selection  is based on the  required  subject  matter  expertise  (SME). 1.2.3.  Special  Tactics  Analysis  Team  (STAT).    STAT  meetings  are  held  for  the  following reasons:    to  assess  adversary  tactics  and  capabilities  that  have  impact  beyond  a  single MAJCOM  Area  of  Responsibility  (AOR)/Area  of  Interest  (AOI),  to  address  topics  not directly  supported  by  an  existing  TAT/TASE,  or  in  response  to  a  high- interest  event.  MAJCOMs/NAFs  and  other  organizations  request  STAT  support  through  the  Adversary Tactics  Program  Manager,  Air  Combat Command,  Analysis  Branch  (ACC/A2AA). 1.2.4.  Emerging  Threat  Tactics  Team  (ET3).    ET3  meetings  are  hosted  by  the  USAF  Air Warfare Center to provide the USAF and  its allies a credible,  focused expert  forum  of  fused ops  and  intelligence  personnel  to  drive  tactics,  testing,  training,  and  acquisition  to  defeat enemy  emerging threats.   ET3s  look at emerging tactics and capabilities  that are expected to be  fielded  within  five  to  ten  years,  on  average.    While  not  officially  part  of  the  TARP, information  derived  from  the TARP  is  often  used to support  ET3 analysis. 1.2.5.  Tactics Coordinating Committee (TCC).  The TCC addresses and assigns action items for  TARP  issues,  reviews  MAJCOM  guidance,  and  compiles  TAT  and  TASE  funding requirements.  The TCC convenes quarterly, but  may be called at any time by the Adversary Tactics Program Manager to resolve significant program issues.  Attendance is mandatory for TAT  co-chairs  and  TASE  chiefs.    The  TCC  forum  can  be  in-person  or  virtual  (via  video teleconference). 4 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 Chapter  2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Deputy  Chief of Staff (DCS) for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2).   AF/A2 is  responsible  for  developing  policy  and oversight  of AF TARP  activities. 2.1.1.  Curre nt  Intelligence  Division  Chief  (AF/A2INO).  AF/A2INO  advocates  for  AF TARP  resources  and advises  ACC/A2AA  on AF TARP  policy  and guidance. 2.1.2.  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Analysis  Division  Chief (AF/A2DA)  will: 2.1.2.1.  Formulate and maintain guidance for overall AF intelligence analysis, to include an AF ISR Program  of Analysis  (POA), including  TARP  direction. 2.1.2.2.  Ensure  all  TARP  products,  services,  and  processes  meet  AF,  DoD,  and intelligence  community  (IC) analytic  directives  and standards. 2.1.2.3.  Provide  oversight  of  overall  AF  analysis  and  production  across  the  ISR Enterprise  as it  relates  to TARP  operations. 2.1.3.  Director  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Resources (AF/A2R).  AF/A2R  is  the program element  monitor  for  the  Tactical  Information Program.  AF/A2R  plans  and programs  for TARP  and secures  funding. 2.2.  Director  of  Intelligence,  Air  Combat  Command  (ACC/A2).  ACC/A2  serves  as  the Adversary  Tactics  Program  Manager  for  AF  TARP.    ACC/A2  develops  goals,  objectives,  and guidance  to ensure  AF TARP  aligns  with  the  AF/A2 Strategy  and  Vision.   ACC/A2 will: 2.2.1.  Advocate  for  TARP  funding,  provide  program  direction,  and  establish  guidance  to identify and outline  TARP requirements and address collaboration between MAJCOM/NAF, TASE,  and foreign  TARP  partners. 2.2.2.  Maintain direct lines of communication with 25 AF/A2A, TAT co-chairs, component-MAJCOMs, and international  TARP  partners. 2.2.3.  Chair  the TCC. 2.2.4.  Collect  MAJCOM/NAF  feedback  on  TARP  operations,  collection  limitations,  and TASE  intelligence  requirements. 2.2.5.  Review MAJCOM/NAF  TAT  guidance  in conjunction with  TAT co-chairs and assist with  updates. 2.2.6.  Designate  STAT  co-chairs  and  the  supporting  TASEs  to  respond  to  specific  STAT analysis  requests. 2.2.7.  Oversee  TARP  expenditures  with  25  AF  TASE  Management  Office  input  to  ensure TARP  funding  is  used  exclusively  for  TARP  operations.    This  includes  funding  action-officer- level  temporary duty to brief operational  units, act as a subject  matter expert at TAT working  group  meetings,  coordinate  visits  to  TARP  IC  partners,  support  exercises,  sponsor analyst  training,  and develop/maintain  TARP  specific  hardware  and software. AFI14-120  9 DECEMBER 2015 5 2.3.  Air  Combat  Command, Global Integrated ISR (GIISR) Core Function Division  Chief (ACC  GIISR/CFT).  ACC  GIISR/CFT  supports  the  ACC  Commander  (COMACC)  Core Function  Lead  (CFL)  on  all  GIISR  programs.    The  ACC  GIISR  CFL  integrates  TARP programmatic  changes  IAW guidance  from  the  Chief  of  Staff  of the  Air  Force. 2.4.  Twenty-Fifth  Air  Force  Analysis  and  Production  Division  Chief  (25  AF/A2A).  25 AF/A2A  provides  direction  and oversight  for TASE  unit  operations  and will: 2.4.1.  Establish TASE teams to optimize  support  for  the MAJCOM/NAF and associated  air components.    2.4.2.  Ensure  TASE  teams  are  manned  by  Signals  Intelligence  (SIGINT)  SMEs  for adversary  tactics,  training,  and employment  in  their  respective  AOR/AOI. 2.4.3.  Issue  policy,  planning,  programming,  and  budgeting  guidance  for  TASE  unit operations. 2.4.4.  Advocate  for  TASE  manpower,  funding,  and  IT  systems  support  dedicated exclusively  to tactics  analysis,  reporting,  and production 2.4.5.  Field and support Tactics Analysis Production System-Personal Computer (TAPS-PC) software  and  other  TARP-related  software  in  compliance  with  security  controls  and  supply chain  risk  management  guidance. 2.4.6.  Coordinate  cryptologic-based  tactics  analysis  issues  between,  ACC/A2AA,  ISR wings,  TAT  co-chairs,  TASEs,  and international  TARP  partners. 2.4.7.  Provide  support  to allied  TARP  partners  for  TASE  operations. 2.4.8.  Establish  and  maintain  comprehensive  TARP  websites  on  both  the  Joint  Worldwide Intelligence  Communications  Systems  (JWICS)  and  the  Secret  Internet  Protocol  Router Network (SIPRNet). 2.5.  MAJCOM/NAF Directors of Intelligence (A2) and Operations(A3) a re responsible for the  execution  of  the  TARP  within  their  AOR/functional  areas.  Both  directors  will  appoint separate  special- intelligence- indoctrinated co-chairs  to represent their respective directorates  for each hosted  TAT. 2.6.  TAT  Co-Chairs  are  responsible  for  the  organization,  conduct,  and  execution  of  their respective TATs.   TAT  Co-Chairs  will: 2.6.1.  Form  and  manage  TATs  and  working  groups  to  satisfy  operational  requirements,  to include  organizing,  hosting  and overseeing  TAT  and working  group  meetings. 2.6.2.  Establish  processes  and  procedures  that  support  TARP  by  identifying  and  outlining specific  duties  of TAT  members. 2.6.3.  Establish  collection  and analysis  requirements  in  support  of each TAT. 2.6.4.  Determine the focus and scope for event a nalysis and establish the priorities for TASE analytical  activity  to satisfy  validated  operational  requirements. 2.6.5.  Detail  procedures  to support  international  TARP  partner  relationships. 6 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 2.6.6.  Team with supporting  TASEs  to provide adversary  tactics,  training, and employment information and briefings directly to operational  units (Regular, Guard, and Reserve)  in their respective  AOR/AOI. 2.6.7.  Ensure that all  TARP products produced within their  MAJCOM/NAF are posted and discoverable  on the TARP  SIPRNet and JWICS web sites. 2.6.8.  Assist  in  advocating  TARP  funding  requirements  through  the AF corporate process. 2.6.9.  Present  TAT-related  programmatic  issues  at the TCC. 2.7.  Tactics  and  Adversary  Studies  Element  (TASE)  Chiefs.  TASEs chiefs are  the  TARP's only  standing official organization dedicated to providing adversary tactics analysis expertise to the  supported  MAJCOM/NAF.    The  mission  of  the  TASE  is  to  gather,  fuse,  and  reconstruct adversary event data  for presentation to the supported  MAJCOM/N AF.  Each TASE  is  manned with  signals  intelligence  (SIGINT)  experts,  also  trained  in  all-source  analysis,  who  serve  as  an interface  between  operational  customers  and  the  various  United  States  (US)  and  allied intelligence  agencies  worldwide.    TASE  members  s hould  be  SMEs  for  adversary  tactics, training,  and  employment  in  their  respective  AOR/AOI.    The  TASE  provides  all-source collector,  operational,  and  technical  expertise  not  typically  available  to  the  operational intelligence  staff.   Each  TASE  will: 2.7.1.  Compile, reconstruct, and analyze adversary events as directed by the supported  TAT co-chairs or the TARP program management (T-2).  Such events could include adversary air, air  defense,  cyberspace  and space tactics,  training,  and employment. 2.7.2.  Interface  directly  with  MAJCOM/NAF  intelligence  and  operations  personnel  to determine  adversary  tactics  analysis  requirements  and acquire  necessary  data (T-2). 2.7.3.  Team  with  the  partnered  MAJCOM/NAF  to  provide  analysis  directly  to  operational units  (T-2). 2.7.4.  Ensure  appropriate  TASE  Chief  or  senior  representative  presence  at  all  TCC  forums (T-2). 2.7.5.  Provide  dedicated  adversary  tactics  analysis  capabilities  to  supported  air  and  space operations centers IAW established  unit  type codes during combat,  contingency operations, and exercises  (T-2). AFI14-120  9 DECEMBER 2015 7 Chapter  3 TACTICS  ANALYSIS  TEAMS 3.1.  Overvie w.  TATs  are  teams  of  intelligence  and  operations  personnel  appointed  by  the MAJCOM/NAF  that  provide  support  to  the  activities  conducted  within  the  AOR/AOI  by analyzing  and documenting  adversary  tactics  intelligence. 3.2.  TAT  Cycle.  A  standing  TAT  runs  on  a  year-round  cycle.    Throughout  the  year,  TAT members  collaborate  with  the  intelligence  and  operations  communities  to  identify  and  analyze events  and  topics  of  interest  relevant  for  discussion  within  their  AOR/AOI.    This  analysis  is presented to all TAT members at a TAT meeting.  During the meeting, all TAT members review and  validate  the  presented  intelligence  and  capture  tactical  takeaways  in  a  TAT  report.  Information  captured  in  the  TAT  report  is  used  to  update:    Air  Force  Tactics,  Techniques,  and Procedures  (AFTTP)  3-1.  Threat  Guide;  Threat  Reference  Guide  and  Countertactics  Manual; Threats  to  Aerospace  Operations  (TTAO)  manuals;  and  other  relevant  reference  doc uments.  Finally,  the  findings  are tailored  into  briefings  for presentation  to AF units. 3.3.  TAT  Composition.  Each  TAT  is  chaired  by  both  an  intelligence  and  operations  co-chair appointed  by  the  hosted  MAJCOM/NAF  and  supported  by  a  TASE  that  is  manned  b y cryptologic personnel provided by 25  AF.   Additional  TAT  members  need to  have the relevant experience to provide detailed analysis of operational tactics, training, and employment of air, air defense,  cyberspace,  and space forces  of potential  adversaries. 3.4.  TAT  Co-chairs.  It  is  highly  recommended that weapons school  graduates  fill one of these positions.    The  intelligence  co-chair  needs  to  be  an  experienced  intelligence  analyst  (officer  or civilian)  appointed  by  the  MAJCOM/NAF  A2.    The  operations  co-chair  needs  to  be  an experienced rated officer or civilian equivalent appointed by the MAJCOM/NAF A3.  Co-chairs are  appointed  in  writing  with  a  courtesy  copy  of  the  appointment  letters  sent  to  ACC/A2AA TARP  Manager.    The  co-chairs  are  the  final  authority  for  selecting  topics  and  events  to  be analyzed  and reported.  Co-chairs  will: 3.4.1.  Determine the focus and scope for event analysis and establish the priorities for TASE analytical  activity  to satisfy  validated  operational  requirements. 3.4.2.  Chair TAT and TAT Working Group meetings and determine and approve the agenda to meet  the air  component’s  adversary  tactics  analysis  requirements. 3.4.3.  Announce  and  invite  TAT  participants  for  meetings.    An  initial  message  should  be sent out 120 days prior to the start of the TAT and a subsequent message every 30 days until the  start  of  the  TAT  to  ensure  proper  coordination  of  participants  and  topics.    TAT announcement  messages  should  also be posted on the  TARP  SIPRNet and JWICS websites. 3.4.4.  Submit  intelligence  production  requirements  through  COLISEUM  in  coordination with  Headquarters  Air  Combat  Command,  Collection  Management  Branch  (ACC/A2AC). 3.4.5.  Ensure  initial  release of  TAT report  is accomplished  within  five  working days of the meeting’s conclusion. Initial release  may be a text-only draft, at any classification  level, and be  sent  to  the  ACC/A2  Adversary  Tactics  Program  Manager  at  a  minimum.    Final  “US-Only”  TAT report  will be released within ten  working days of the  meeting’s conclusion and posted on the  TARP SIPRNet and JWICS websites.  If appropriate, subsequent  TAT reports 8 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 at  other  classification  levels  will  be  released  with  30  working  days  of  TAT  conclusion.  Ensure  sanitization  and  release  of  TARP  products  produced  by  the  TAT  and/or  support TASE,  and  disseminate  the  products  within  five  work  days  of  the  meeting’s  conclusion.  Initially  release  a  text  version  without  graphics  to  keep  the  five-day  suspense  and  post  all TAT  reports  on the TARP  SIPRNet and JWICS websites  upon  publication. 3.4.6.  Advocate  and  assist  TASE  Chiefs  in  scheduling  adversary  tactics  briefings  for operational  units,  placing  priority  on  units  that  deploy  in  support  of  contingencies,  combat operations,  theater  support  packages  (TSP),  or  multinational  exercises  in  coordination  wit h supporting  TASE  or with  25 AF for out-of-area  requirements. 3.4.7.  Ensure  TAT  results  are  available  for  presentation  at  national  tactics  forums  (e.g., Nellis Air Tactics Conference, Integrated Air Defense Systems Forum) and for incorporation into  applicable  revisions  of  the AFTTP  3-1. Threat  Guide. 3.4.8.  Solicit  feedback  from  TAT  participants  and  consumers  of  TAT  products  and incorporate  findings  to refine  local  processes. 3.5.  Participants.  TATs  are  made  up  of  personnel  drawn  from  a  wide  variety  of  intelligence and operations organizations  within  the  AF and joint community as well as  from specific allied partners.    Any  TDY  travel  in  support  of  a  TAT  is  unit  funded.    Members  may  participate  in person  or  virtually,  as  conditions  allow.    The  membership  of  a  TAT  should  be  limited  to  the number  of  core  members  and  specialists  needed  to  adequately  address  the  topics  identified  for examination.  Participation by weapons school graduates or personnel of equivalent experience is highly  recommended.   Other TAT  members  are primarily  drawn  from  the  following: 3.5.1.  Aggressor  Squadrons. 3.5.2.  Operational  Squadrons.    MAJCOM/NAFs  need  to  ensure  crew  members  with significant  relevant  experience  in  the appropriate  AOR/AOI  participate  in  TAT  meetings. 3.5.3.  Intelligence  Collectors  and  Analysts.   Personnel  from  National  Intelligence Community analytical sites, airborne collection platforms, and other entities with collections experience  relevant  to the  AOR/AOI  provide  additional  intelligence  expertise  to the  TAT. 3.5.4.  Intelligence Production Centers.  Analysts  from production  centers,  including but  not limited to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center, the Missile and Space Intelligence Center,  and  the  National  Ground  Intelligence  Center,  should  be  invited  to  provide  subject matter  expertise  to the  TAT. 3.5.5.  Other DoD Services’ Experts.  Operations and intelligence personnel with appropriate experience  in  the AOR/AOI (e.g., PATRIOT operators and  the Office of Naval Intelligence Strike  Projection  Evaluation  and  Anti-Air  Warfare  Research  Division  cell  (ONI-SPEAR)). 3.5.6.  Graduates of AF or other US Service  weapons schools (e.g.,  US Navy Strike Fighter Tactics  Instructor  Program  (formerly  USN Fighter  Weapons  School))   3.5.7.  Allied  TARP  partner  aircrews,  intelligence  personnel,  and  other allied  agencies. 3.5.8.  Weapons  controllers,  weapon  systems  operators, and SMEs. 3.6.  US  organizations  and  foreign  partners  that  convene  TATs  and  participate  in  the TARP  process are shown  in Table  3.  1. AFI14-120  9 DECEMBER 2015 9 Table 3.1.  TAT  Representation. MAJCOM Air  Combat  Command  (ACC) Air  Mobility  Command  (AMC) Pacific  Air  Forces (PACAF) Air  Forces Europe  (USAFE)/ Air  Forces Africa  (AFAF) Air  Force Special  Operations  Command (AFSOC) Air  Force Space Command  (AFSPC) TAT Air  Forces Central  TAT  (CENTAT) Latin  American  TAT  (LATAT)   Homeland  Defense  TAT  (HDTAT) Special  Tactics  Analysis  Team  (STAT)  Air  Mobility  TAT  (AMTAT) Australian  TAT  (AusTAT) Asian  TAT  (ATAT) European  TAT  (ETAT) Far East  TAT  (FETAT) Korean TAT  (KTAT) Alaskan  TAT  (AKTAT) European  TAT  (ETAT) European  Surface-to-Air  Missile  TAT  (ESTAT) Special  Operations  Forces TAT  (SOFTAT) Space TAT Cyberspace  TAT 10 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 Chapter  4 PROGRAM PRODUCTS 4.1.  Overvie w.  The  nature of operations  supported by the TARP dictates  the  type of reporting product.   The physical  form of  the product  is determined by the  nature of  the request,  the event being  analyzed,  the  data  available,  and  the  time  provided  to  respond.    At  a  minimum,  TAT reporting  takes  the  form  of  a  written  report  and  can  be  augmented  by  TAPS  videos,  formal briefings, verbal presentations, or any combination.  All TARP products are posted on the TARP SIPRNet and JWICS websites  as part of the  publication  process. 4.2.  TAT  Report.  The  primary  product  of  the  TARP  is  the  TAT  report  that  documents  the team’s  analytical  efforts.    The  report  is  written  by  operators  for  operators  and  should  use  an informal  writing  style  with  operational  jargon,  when  acceptable.    No  changes  are  made  to  the report  after  the  meeting  concludes,  with  the  exception  of  administrative  corrections  and  the addition of details  that  were  not available at the  meeting, but deemed essential by  the co-chairs.  A text version, at any classification level, will be sent to the ACC/A2 Adversary Tactics Program Manager at a  minimum  within  five work days of the TAT conclusion. The final  TAT report will be  released  within  ten  working  days  of  the  meeting’s  conclusion  and  posted  on  the  TARP SIPRNet  and  JWICS  websites    The  report  is  released  to  all  MAJCOMs’  Regular,  Guard,  and Reserve  units;  intelligence  organizations  involved  in  TARP  operations;  chapter  chairs  for AFTTP  3-1.  Threat  Guide,  and  any  other  recipients  deemed  relevant  by  the  TAT  co-chairs.  Classification  of  the  report  should  not  exceed  the  secret  collateral  level  to  ensure  widest dissemination  among  the  operational  community  and  allied  partners.    A  supplemental  report classified above the secret collateral level may be generated if deemed necessary by the TAT co-chairs.    Sanitized  versions  of  the  TAT  report  may  be  generated  for  allied  or  coalition  partners that  could  benefit  from  the  report’s findings. 4.3.  Quick  Reaction  Capability  (QRC)  Products.  A  QRC  product  is  the  initial  report  of events  that  are  of  immediate  concern  to  the  supported  MAJCOM/NAF,  air  co mponent,  theater commander,  or  national  decision  maker.    The  goal  is  to  gather  all  available  information  on  a distinct event, perform baseline analysis, and report  findings as quickly as possible.   The QRC supplements  TAT  meetings  and  working  groups  by  pro viding  a  timely  flow  of  preliminary adversary  tactics  information  to  consumers.    The  form  of  the  response  is  dictated  by  customer desire,  timelines  and availability of relevant/pertinent  information.   Requests  for QRC products should  be  submitted  directly  to  their  supporting  TASE.    Requests  for  QRC  products  from organizations  that  are  not  directly  supported  by  a  TASE  (e.g.,  ACC/A2,  Joint  Survival  and Recovery  Center,  Secretary  of  Defense,  etc.)  should  be  directed  to  the  25  AF/A2A  TASE Management  Office  for  tasking  to an appropriate  TASE. 4.4.  “Road  Show”  Briefings.  Permanently  assigned  TASE  members  will  develop  a  briefing based on the final TAT report.  Briefing allows a unique opportunity to provide operational units an  all- source  evaluation  of  potential  adversary  tactics,  training,  and  employment  capabilities.  Briefing  may  also  support  deployments  for  contingencies,  combat  operations,  or  multi- national training  events.    In  addition  to  in-person  briefings,  every  effort  should  be  made  to  use  all available  virtual  conferencing  means  to  reach  as  many  customers  as  possible.    TASE  Chief AFI14-120  9 DECEMBER 2015 11 should  consider  allowing  TAT  Co-Chairs  or  working  group  leads  to  review  TASE-produced briefing  material  prior  to final  dissemination.  ROBERT  P. OTTO, Lt Gen,  USAF Deputy  Chief  of Staff,  Intelligence, Surveillance,  and Reconnaissance 12 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 GLOSSARY  OF REFERENCES  AND SUPPORTING  INFORMATION Attachment  1 References AFPD 14-1, Intelligence,  Surveillance, and Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Planning, Resources,  and Operations, 2 April  2004 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September  2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,  1 March 2008 AFTTP  3-1. Threat  Guide;  Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December 2012 Adopted Forms AF Form  847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air  Combat  Command ACC/A2—Air  Combat  Command  Intelligence  Directorate ACC/A2AA—Adversary  Tactics  Program  Manager,  Air  Combat  Command,  Analysis  Branch ACC/A8—Air  Combat  Command  Global  Integrated  ISR Core Function  Division AF—Air  Force AFAF—Air  Forces Africa AFI—Air  Forces Instruction AFMAN—Air  Force Manual AFPD—Air  Force Policy  Directive AFR—Air  Force Reserve AFSOC—Air  Force Special  Operations  Command AFSPC—Air  Force Space Command AFTTP—Air  Force Tactics,  Techniques,  and Procedures AKTAT—Alaska  TAT AMC—Air  Mobility  Command AMTAT—Air  Mobility  TAT ANG—Air  National  Guard AOI—Area  of  Interest AOR—Area  of Responsibility ATAT—Asia  TAT AFI14-120  9 DECEMBER 2015 13 AusTAT—Australian  TAT CENTAT—Air  Forces Central  TAT CFL—Core  Function  Lead COMACC—Commander,  Air  Combat  Command DCS—Deputy  Chief  of Staff ESTAT—European  Surface-to-Air  Missile  TAT ETAT—European  TAT FETAT—Far  East TAT GIISR—Global  Integrated  ISR HDTAT—Homeland  Defense  TAT IAW—In  Accordance  With IC—Intelligence  Community ISR—Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and Reconnaissance JWICS—Joint  Worldwide  Intelligence  Communications  Systems KTAT—Korea  TAT LATAT—Latin  American  TAT MAJCOM—Major Command NAF—Numbered  Air  Force NSA/CSS—National  Security  Agency/Central  Security  Service OPR—Office  of Primary  Responsibility PACAF—Pacific  Air  Forces QRC—Quick  Reaction  Capability SIGINT—Signals  Intelligence SIPRNet—Secret Internet  Protocol  Router  Network SME—Subject  Matter Expert SOFTAT—Special  Operations  Forces TAT STAT—Special  Tactics  Analysis  Team T-0—Tier  0 T-1—Tier  1 T-2—Tier  2 T-3—Tier  3 TAC—Tactics  Analysis  Conference 14 AFI14-120   9 DECEMBER 2015 TAPS-PC—Tactics  Analysis  Production  System-Personal  Computer TARP—Tactics  Analysis  and Reporting  Program TASE—Tactics  and Adversary  Studies  Element TAT—Tactics  Analysis  Team TCC—Tactics  Coordination  Committee US—United  States USAFE—US  Air  Forces Europe  