 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-606 30 JULY 2015 Operations Support FOREIGN CLEARANCE PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   AF/A10-S  Supersedes:   AFI16-606, 21 January 2011 Certified by: AF/A10-S  (Col Thomas Summers) Pages: 5   This  Instruction  implements  AFPD  16-6,  International  Arms  Control  and  Nonproliferation Agreements,  and  The  DoD  Foreign  Clearance  Program  (FCP).  It  provides  guidance  for  the Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  FCP  and  applicability  and  availability  guidance  for  the  DoD Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG). This Instruction applies to all military and civilian personnel in the United States Air Force, Air  Force Reserve (AFR), and Air  National  Guard (ANG).  It  also applies  to  USAF  personnel  assigned  to  international  staffs  or  organizations  and  personnel traveling  under  USAF  sponsorship,  except  for  members  and  employees  of  Congress.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to certification and  approval.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0”)  number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority. Ensure that all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS) https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm   2  AFI16-606  30 JULY 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  includes  updated  office  titles  and  symbols  to  reflect  the  October  2014  HAF reorganization  and  some  administrative  changes.  References  to  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff, Operations,  Plans,  and  Requirement  (AF/A3/5)  were  changed  to  the  Assistant  Chief  of  Staff, Strategic  Deterrence  and  Nuclear  Integration  (AF/A10).  Similarly,  references  to  the  Strategic Plans  and  Policy  Division  (AF/A5XP)  were  changed  to  the  Strategic  Stability  and  CWMD Division  (AF/A10-S).  It  also  implements  SAF/AA  guidance  resulting  from  the  recent Compliance Statement Review. 1.  Overview. 1.1.  The  DoD  FCG  describes  the  information  required  and  procedures  used  by  DoD  units and  personnel  to  obtain  permission  to  enter  or  overfly  foreign  territories.  It  lists  other clearance  requirements  established  by  international  and  US  Government  agencies  that coordinate and regulate international travel  as well as DoD policies and procedures relating to travel or transit of aircraft, aircrews, cargo, and personnel into or through the territory of a foreign country. 1.2.  The DoD FCG applies to the following 1.2.1.  USAF Components. 1.2.2.  USAF personnel assigned to international staffs or organizations. 1.2.3.  Personnel traveling under USAF sponsorship, except for members and employees of Congress. 1.2.4.  All AF offices that plan, brief, or process and clear: 1.2.4.1.  Aircraft  entering  or  overflying  foreign  nations  and  aircraft  reentering  the continental United States (CONUS). 1.2.4.2.  Cargo for transport by DoD aircraft operating between foreign areas. 1.2.4.3.  Personnel  for  official  temporary  duty  travel  between  foreign  areas  or  US controlled areas outside the CONUS, and leave travel. 2.  Accessibility. 2.1.  DoD FCG. 2.1.1.  The https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil. unclassified publication 2.1.2.  The https://www.fcg.pentagon.smil.mil. publication is also is available on the  NIPRNet at available on the SIPRNet at 2.1.3.  The  Classified https://www.fcg.pentagon.smil.mil/fcgsupplement/classified-supplement.html. Supplement available SIPRNet is on the at 2.2.  The  Aircraft  and  Personnel  Automated  Clearance  System  (APACS)  is  the  web-based application  for  requesting  approval  for  DoD-sponsored  overseas  travel  and  aircraft diplomatic clearances to or through foreign territory.  Alternate clearance processes may be used  with  the  concurrence  of  the  aircraft  requestor,  aircraft  approver,  and  AF/A10-S.  APACS is located: AFI16-606  30 JULY 2015   3  2.2.1.  The unclassified system is available on the NIPRNet at https://apacs.dtic.mil. 2.2.2.  The classified system is available on the SIPRNet at https://apacs.dtic.smil.mil. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  The  Chief,  Strategic  Stability  and  CWMD  Policy  Division  (AF/A10-S),  through  the Assistant Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10), shall: 3.1.1.  Manage all aspects of the DoD Foreign Clearance Program for the Air Force and for the SECAF, the DoD Executive Agent for the DoD FCP. 3.1.2.  Coordinate with Major Commands and applicable Headquarters Air Force offices to develop Air Force positions on DoD FCP proposals and negotiating positions, and to not interfere with current informal agreements with host nations. Provide Air Force input into developing DoD negotiating positions. 3.1.3.  Inform and advise senior Air Force leadership on DoD FCP issues. 3.1.4.  Answer congressional requests about DoD FCP impacts on Air Force operations. 3.1.5.  Provide  guidance  on  interpreting  international  agreements  pertaining  to  the  DoD FCP and establish plans and procedures for implementing and ensuring compliance with such agreements, both formal and informal. 3.1.6.  Represent the Air Force, as required, on appropriate DoD working groups. 3.1.7.  Manage  implementation  of  overall  education  and  training  for  Foreign  Clearance Program activities within the Air Force. 3.1.8.  Provide  guidance  on  implementation  and  compliance  with  Air  Force  Policy regarding  payment  of  aviation-related  fees  levied  against  Air  Force  missions  operating over or within foreign territories. 3.1.9.  Provide  guidance  on international sovereignty policy with respect to USAF aircraft transiting international airspace, foreign territorial airspace or landing in a foreign territory. implementation  and  compliance  with 3.2.  Major Command (MAJCOM) Commanders will: 3.2.1.  Establish a DoD FCP point of contact to deal specifically with issues applicable to each MAJCOM. 3.2.2.  Ensure  that  the  MAJCOM,  in  concert  with  AF/A10-S,  educates  those  personnel directly  involved  with  DoD  FCP  activities  and  raises  awareness  of  foreign  clearance throughout the command. 3.2.3.  Request AF/A10-S guidance, as appropriate, when any foreign clearance concerns arise. 3.3.  The General Counsel of the Air Force (SAF/GC) is responsible, within the Department of  the  Air  Force,  for  legal  interpretation  of  foreign  clearance  agreements  as  they  pertain  to the  DoD  FCP.   SAF/GC  shall  provide  advice  and  assistance  for  negotiation  of, implementation  of,  and  compliance  with,  foreign  clearance  agreements  affecting  global access and the implementation of the DoD FCP.  AFI16-606  30 JULY 2015 3.4.  All Air Force commanders and personnel will: 3.4.1.  Refer  questions  related  to  international  aircraft  sovereignty,  access  to  foreign airspace, and foreign clearance agreements pertaining to the DoD FCP to AF/A10-S. 3.4.2.  Implement relevant agreement provisions and ensure their programs/activities are in full compliance with the agreements and with foreign clearance policy. (T-0). 3.4.3.  Ensure  that  the  implementation  of  foreign  clearance  agreements  is  carried  out  so as to avoid the compromise of classified information. (T-0).   4   GARRETT HARENCAK, Maj Gen, USAF ACS, Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration AFI16-606  30 JULY 2015   5  Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References DoDD 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP), December 28, 2009 AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and The DoD Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010, certified current, 20 March 2012 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive ANG—Air National Guard APACS—Aircraft and Personnel Automated Clearance System CONUS—Continental United States CWMD—Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive FCG—Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide FCP—Foreign Clearance Program GC—General Counsel HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force MAJCOM—Major Command NIPRNet—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network US—United States USAF—United States Air Force 