 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-5FT, VOLUME 2 27 AUGUST 2015 Flying Operations  SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS (SUAS) FLIGHT TEST EVALUATION CRITERIA COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AFMC/A3   Certified by: AF/A35 (Maj Gen Martin Whelan) Pages: 34   This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-5, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems  (SUAS)  Rules,  Procedures  and  Service;  and  AFI  11-502,  Small  Unmanned  Aircraft Systems Training, Standardization/Evaluation Programs, and Operations.  It provides guidance and procedures for Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (SUAS) in Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)  and  US  Air  Force  Academy  (USAFA).    It  applies  to  individuals  at  all  levels  who operate Group 1, Group 2, or Group 3 SUAS for the purposes of Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) within or on the behalf of AFMC and USAFA, including the Air Force Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  (ANG).    (AFMC  and  USAFA  units  operating  SUAS  for operational  or  training  missions,  not  directly  associated  with  RDT&E,  operate  under  the appropriate  AFI  11-5  Mission,  Design,  Series  (MDS)  instruction.)    This  AFI  may  be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed  to  the  OPR  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.  Refer  recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Forms 847 from the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.    The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    2  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    This  publication  requires  the collection  and  or  maintenance  of  information  protected  by  Title  5  United  States  Code  (USC) Section  552a,  The  Privacy  Act  of  1974.    The  authorities  to  collect  or  maintain  the  records prescribed  in  the  publication  are  10  USC  §  8013,  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force;  Executive  Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, as amended.  The use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.   Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION    1.1. Scope.   .....................................................................................................................  1.2. Recommended Changes.   ........................................................................................  1.3.  Waivers.   .................................................................................................................  1.4. Procedures:  .............................................................................................................  1.5. Grading Instructions.   .............................................................................................  1.6. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE).  .............................................................  1.7. Publications.   ...........................................................................................................  Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS    2.1. General.   ..................................................................................................................  2.2. Instrument Evaluation.   ...........................................................................................  2.3. Qualification Evaluation.   .......................................................................................  2.4.  Mission Evaluation.   ...............................................................................................  2.5. Instructor Evaluation.   .............................................................................................  2.6. Spot Evaluation.   .....................................................................................................  2.7. Evaluation Requirements.   ......................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—SUAS OPERATOR (EXTERNAL) EVALUATION CRITERIA   Attachment 3—SUAS OPERATOR (INTERNAL) AND PAYLOAD OPERATOR EVALUATION CRITERIA       3 3 3 3 3 4 4 5 6 6 6 6 7 7 7 7 8 15 25 AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   3  Chapter 1 GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1.  Scope.  AFMC  produces  a  three-volume  set  of  Flight  Test  (FT)  instructions  containing attachments for each SUAS Group flown in  AFMC.  These instructions are numbered AFI 11-5FT Volume 1, 2, and 3, and contain the training, evaluation criteria, and operations procedures, respectively,  for  each  SUAS  Group.    AFMC  uses  these  instructions  in  lieu  of  AFI  11-5  GP-specific Volumes for Research Developmental Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) flying operations.  In  the  absence  of  published  guidance,  AFMC  units  will  coordinate  through  AFRL/DO  to  HQ AFMC/A3V for approval  of locally developed guidelines.   If possible, these  guidelines will be consistent  with  similar  guidance  specified  in  the  appropriate  AFI  11-5  GP-specific  lead MAJCOM Volumes. 1.1.1.  All  evaluations  will  be  conducted  IAW  the  provisions  of  AFI  11-502,  Volume  2, AFMC and unit supplements, and this instruction.  Information gathering documents will be established as forms in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. 1.2.  Recommended Changes.  Send comments and suggested improvements to this volume on AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication,  through  AFRL/DO  to  HQ AFMC/A3V, 508 W. Choctawhatchee Avenue, Suite 4, Eglin AFB FL 32542-5713.  HQ AF/A3 will approve all interim changes to this instruction. 1.3.  Waivers.  Unless  otherwise  specified  in  this  instruction,  HQ  AFMC/A3V  is  the  waiver authority for this instruction.  All waivers will be routed through appropriate operations channels to SUAS operating unit commanders, and the FOA providing overall flight operations oversight, prior  to  submission  to  HQ  AFMC/A3V.    Use  an  AFMC  Form  73,  AFMC  Flight  Operations Waiver Request, to process the waiver. 1.3.1.  Tier requirements refer to waiver authority based on level of risk. 1.3.1.1.  “Tier 0” (T-0) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance is determined and waived by respective non-Air Force authority. 1.3.1.2.  “Tier  1”  (T-1)  requirements  are  reserved  for  requirements  that  non-compliance may  put  airman,  mission,  or  program  strongly  at  risk,  and  may  only  be  waived  by  the MAJCOM/CC  or  delegate  with  concurrence  of  publication  approver.    When  multiple MAJCOMs are affected, then T-1 is appropriate. 1.3.1.3.  “Tier 2” (T-2) requirements are reserved for requirements that potentially put the mission at risk or potentially degrade the mission or program, and may only be waived by the MAJCOM/CC or delegate. 1.3.1.4.  “Tier  3”  (T-3)  requirements  are  reserved  for  requirements  that  non-compliance has  a  remote  risk  of  mission  failure,  and  may  be  waived  by  the  Wing/CC  but  no  lower than the OG/CC. 1.4.  Procedures: 1.4.1.  Small  UAS  Evaluators  (SUAS-Es)  will  use  the  evaluation  criteria  contained  in Attachments  2  and  3  for  conducting  all  flight  evaluations  and  paragraph  1.6  for  all emergency procedures evaluations.  To ensure standard and objective evaluations, SUAS-Es   4  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria.  If guidance published in this volume is not sufficient or does not apply, follow lead MAJCOM guidance.  (T-2) 1.4.2.  Unless  specified,  the  examinee  or  SUAS-E  may  observe  in  any  flight  position  (to include  external  or  internal  operator)  which  will  best  enable  the  SUAS-E  to  conduct  a thorough evaluation. 1.4.3.  The SUAS-E will brief the examinee on the purpose of the evaluation and how it will be  conducted  prior  to  flight.    The  examinee  will  accomplish  required  flight  planning  in accordance with the flight position during the evaluation.  SUAS-Es will be furnished a copy of necessary mission data, and mission materials. 1.4.4.  The  SUAS-E  will  thoroughly  debrief  all  aspects  of  the  flight.    This  debrief  will include the examinee's overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than qualified) and any required additional training. 1.5.  Grading  Instructions.  This  instruction  and  its  attachments  contain  the  standards  and criteria for conducting evaluations in AFMC SUAS.  These standards when applied with SUAS-E judgment are the determining factor in awarding sub-area and overall evaluation grades. 1.5.1.  The SUAS-E will evaluate flight parameters based on conditions of smooth air and a stable  aircraft.    Do  not  consider  momentary  deviations  from  tolerances  provided  the examinee  applies  prompt  corrective  action  and  such  deviations  do  not  jeopardize  flying safety.    The  SUAS-E  will  consider  cumulative  deviations  when  determining  the  overall grade. 1.5.2.  The  SUAS-E  will  evaluate  each  area  accomplished  during  the  evaluation  using  the standards provided in this instruction and assign an appropriate grade for the area.  Derive the overall flight evaluation grade from a composite of the area grades.  SUAS-E judgment must be  exercised  when  the  wording  of  areas  is  subjective  and  when  specific  situations  are  not covered.  SUAS-E judgment will be the determining factor in arriving at the overall grade. 1.5.3.  If  the  examinee  receives  an  unqualified  grade  in  any  critical  area,  an  overall unqualified grade will be assigned. 1.5.4.  The general grading criteria applied during all phases of flight will be specified in the MDS-specific attachment for each SUAS or in equivalent documentation for research flight test SUASs. 1.6.  Emergency  Procedures  Evaluation  (EPE).  SUAS Operators will be administered EPEs.  Use an ATD specific to the SUAS to perform EPEs (when available and properly configured) to the  maximum  extent  possible.    If  an  ATD  is  not  used,  the  EPE  will  be  conducted  in  an appropriate  unit  training  device  (UTD)  or  ground  control  station  procedures  trainer  (GCS Trainer),  in  order  of  preference.    If  a  training  device  is  not  used,  the  EPE  will  be  an  oral evaluation.  (T-3) 1.6.1.  The  following  items,  as  applicable,  will  be  included  on  all  emergency  procedures evaluations: 1.6.1.1.  SUAS General Knowledge. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   5  1.6.1.2.  Emergency Procedures. Evaluate a minimum  of two emergency  procedures per phase of flight (i.e., pre-takeoff, takeoff, cruise and landing).  All  Bold Face/CAPS will be evaluated (if applicable). 1.6.1.3.  Crew Resource Management (CRM). 1.6.1.4.  Unusual  attitude  recoveries  will  be  evaluated  IAW  SUAS  specific  operating procedures or approved test plans during all EPEs.  If performed in an ATD, this fulfills the  requirement  for  Unusual  Attitude  Recoveries  on  Operator  Instrument/Qualification evaluations. 1.6.2.  The  following  additional  items  will  be  included  on  EPEs  as  a  requisite  for  the qualification evaluation (if applicable): 1.6.2.1.  Evaluate use of standby/emergency instruments.  N/A unless so equipped. 1.6.2.2.  Alternate  or  Divert  Recovery/landing  Airfields.    Evaluate  a  minimum  of  one alternate approach other than the planned recovery.  Unlike for manned evaluations, this does not have to be accomplished at a different (“strange field”) location. 1.6.3.  EPE scenarios will be tailored to unit tasking and will include emergencies occurring during  situations  a  SUAS  operator  might  encounter  while  flying  the  unit’s  mission (Functional Check Flight, R&D Flight Test, etc.). 1.6.4.  Examinees receiving an overall unqualified grade will be placed in  supervised status until  a  re-evaluation  is  successfully  accomplished.    Examinees  receiving  an  overall unqualified  grade  because  of  an  unsatisfactory  Bold  Face/CAPS  evaluation  will  not  be permitted  to  fly  in  their  SUAS  operator  position  until  a  successful  re-evaluation  is accomplished.  If examinee receives a grade of qualified with additional training required for an EPE, the SUAS-E will indicate if the additional training will be accomplished before the flight evaluation.  (T-3) 1.6.5.  The following grading criteria will be used to grade individual items on EPE’s: 1.6.5.1.  Q: Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors. 1.6.5.2.  Q-:  Performance  is  safe,  with  limited  proficiency.  Makes  errors  of  omission  or commission. 1.6.5.3.  U: Performance is unsafe or indicates lack of knowledge or ability. 1.7.  Publications.  The  examinee  will  submit  their  issued  copy  of  required  publications  for evaluation.  Digital T.O.s, Operators Manuals, Pilot Operating Handbook, etc., are approved for use  by  individual  SUAS  personnel.    Maintain  one  copy  of  the  designated  digital  media  per individual IAW AFI 11-215.  Units that fly multiple variants of a specific SUAS (i.e., RQ-11B and RQ-11C) will declare one variant as the primary system.  Issue individual publications based on this determination.   6  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 Chapter 2 EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS 2.1.  General. 2.1.1.  All  evaluations  will  follow  the  guidelines  set  in  AFI  11-502,  Volume  2,  Chapter  5.  The procedures outlined in this chapter apply to all flying programs. 2.1.2.  Required  evaluation  areas  are  contained  in  forms  specified  in  AFMC  Supplement  to AFI 11-502 Volume 2.  When it is impossible to evaluate a required area in flight, it will be evaluated  by  an  alternate  method  (i.e.,  in  an  UTD/ATD/CPT  or  by  oral  examination).  Document the reason a required area was not evaluated in-flight.  Document the method of evaluation  in  Section  D  of  the  evaluation  record.    If  the  SUAS-E  determines  the  required item  cannot  be  adequately  evaluated  by  an  alternate  method,  the  examinee  will  require  an additional flight to complete the evaluation.  (T-3) 2.1.3.  Evaluate  all  issued  flight  publications  for  currency  and  accuracy  on  all  flight evaluations.  Units may specify additional publications to be evaluated in the unit supplement to AFI 11-502 Volume 2. 2.1.4.  The  SUAS  specific  Form  59  may  be  used  as  a  draft  form  until  the  Form  8/8a  is finalized. 2.2.  Instrument  Evaluation.  Normally  N/A  for  SUAS.    Fielded  and  research  test  SUAS  and SUAS-Os have neither the equipment nor training and certifications to comply with procedures for operation under Instrument Flight Rules (IFR).  SUAS missions flown using typical ground control stations are inherently “instrument-like” flight operations using controls and instruments unique to the SUAS.  Evaluations will be tailored accordingly for each SUAS operator.  Unless conducting  IFR  operations,  however,  SUAS-Os  are  not  required  to  receive  an  Instrument evaluation. 2.3.  Qualification Evaluation.  Requirements for a SUAS Operator Qualification evaluation are as follows:  (T-3) 2.3.1.  Minimum ground phase requisites are closed and open book examinations, EPE, and Bold Face/CAPS Written Exam.  Answers must contain all Bold Face/CAPS items in proper sequence.  Abbreviations are allowed. 2.3.2.  SUAS  normal  navigation,  approaches  and  related  procedures  (holding,  fix-to-fix, waypoint  following),  normal  VFR  patterns  and  landing  are  required,  as  applicable  to  the SUAS  being  flown.    External  and  Internal  Operators  will  perform  applicable  emergency work as dictated by crew station (External/Internal), control method (R/C, autonomous, etc), and SUAS Group.  These tasks may include engine out, no flap, partial flap, ground station lost navigation and/or comm link, and other emergency procedures as they apply. 2.3.3.  SUAS External Operators will complete all flight procedures required by the specific SUAS as a requisite for the qualification evaluation. 2.3.4.  All SUAS-Os will be evaluated on compliance with National Airspace System Rules and procedures.  Flight test mission planning will also be graded for adequate consideration of  potential  hazards  during  all  flight  operations  including,  but  not  limited  to:  high  traffic AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   7  areas, other military training route crossing points/deconfliction, noise sensitive areas, no-fly areas and abort considerations.  (T-3) 2.3.5.  Multiple qualifications will be handled IAW AFI 11-502, Volume 2.  (T-3) 2.4.  Mission  Evaluation.  IAW  AFI  11-502,  AFMC  Sup  1  (5.2.1.2),  the  requirement  for  a Mission evaluation for AFMC SUAS operators is waived.  However, evaluators will attempt to include mission type events on a qualification evaluation if the unit mission commonly includes these,  and  both  the  examinee  and  evaluator  are  experienced  and  qualified  in  those  mission events.  Mission type events include any advanced handling or Phase II event such as basic flight test  techniques,  test  team/crew  coordination,  approaches  to  stalls,  confidence  maneuvers, payload/weapons  operations  and  deliveries,  autopilot  gain  tuning,;  unique  hand-off  procedures; and functional checks, etc.  The Mission section of the evaluation sheets contains four areas to be evaluated if mission type events are accomplished on a Qualification evaluation. 2.5.  Instructor Evaluation.  Initial Instructor and Instructor Requalification evaluations will be conducted  IAW  AFI  11-502,  Volume  2,  Chapter  5.  Flight  evaluations  will  include  a  thorough evaluation  of  the  examinee's  instructor  knowledge  and  ability.    The  instructor  candidate  will demonstrate  to  the  evaluator  an  EPE  IAW  AFMC  grade  sheets.    This  is  a  one-time  check  in which  the  examinee  must  demonstrate  the  ability  to  instruct  in  various  phases  of  the  unit’s mission.  Except for requirements detailed on AFMC Evaluation Sheets, specific profiles and/or events  will  be  determined  by  the  SUAS-E.    All  subsequent  periodic  evaluations  (for  example, Qualification,  Mission)  will  include  instructor  portions  during  the  evaluations.    Initial  and Requalification  Instructor  Evaluations  will  include  the  applicable  portions  of  the  following sections: General; Ground; Qualification; and Instructor. 2.6.  Spot Evaluation.  Spot evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 11-502, Volume 2, Chapter 5.    A  SPOT  evaluation  is  an  evaluation  not  intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements  of  a  periodic (i.e., QUAL, MSN, INSTR) evaluation.  A spot has no particular requisites or requirements, but may be converted into a periodic evaluation if all of the requirements for that evaluation are met.  SUAS-E objectivity evaluations will be documented as SPOT evaluations. 2.7.  Evaluation Requirements.  Requirements for all SUAS operator evaluations are identified in  forms  as specified in AFMC Supplement  to  AFI 11-502 Volume 2.  Each crew position has specific section requirements and evaluation criteria.  Use forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-502 Volume 2 for conducting all aircrew evaluations.  To conserve flying resources, units  will  make  every  attempt  to  combine  evaluations  (for  example  QUAL/INSTR/INSTM examinations will be combined to the maximum extent possible).  SCOTT A. VANDER HAMM, Maj Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations   8  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 11-5, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (SUAS) Rules, Procedures, and Service, 17 Aug 09 AFI 11-502V1, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Training, 26 Apr 2012 AFI 11-502V2, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Standardization/Evaluation Program, 26 Apr 2012 AFI 11-502V3, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operations, 26 Apr 2012 AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP) , 22 Dec 2008  AFI 11-215 AFMC SUP 1 (Holdover), USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP) 25 May 2011 AFI 13-212, Range Planning & Operations, 16 Nov 2007 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013 Forms Adopted AFMC Form 59, Aircrew Evaluation (SUAS) AFMC Form 73, AFMC/A3V Waiver Request AFMC Form 80, Multiple Qualification Request and Authorization AF Form 8, Certification of Aircrew Qualification AF Form 8a, Certification of Aircrew Qualification (Multiple Aircraft) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command AGL—Above Ground Level ANG—Air National Guard ATC—Air Traffic Control AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   9  ATD—aircrew training device CAPS—Critical Action Procedures COA AFSOC—Certificate of Authorization CONUS AFSOC—Continental United States COMSEC—Communications Security COP—Communities of Practice CPT—cockpit procedures trainer CRM—Crew Resource Management DH—decision height DNIF—Duties Not Including Flying DoD—Department of Defense EO—External Operator EOC—End of Course EP—Evaluator Pilot/emergency procedures EPE—Emergency Procedures Evaluation ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement EVS—Electro-Optical Viewing System FAA—Federal Aviation Administration FAR—Federal Aviation Regulation FCIF—Flight Crew Information File FLIP—Flight Information Publication FMP—Flight Manuals Program FTU—Formal Training Unit GCS—Ground Control Station GPS—Global Positioning System IAW—In Accordance With IFR—Instrument Flight Rules INIT INSTR—Initial Instructor INSTR—Instructor (IP) IO—Internal Operator KIAS—knots indicated airspeed LOL—Loss of Link   10  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 MAJCOM—Major Command MC—Mission Commander MR—Mission Ready MFR—Memorandum For Record MO—Mission Operator MQF—Master Question File N/A—Not Applicable NAS—National Airspace System NGB—National Guard Bureau N/N—No Notice NOTAM—Notices to Airmen OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility ORM—Operational Risk Management PCS—Permanent Change of Station Q—Qualified QUAL—Qualification QUAL/MSN—Qualification/Mission R/C—Radio Control RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RDT&E—Research Development Test and Evaluation RQ—Requalification RVR—Runway Visual range RVT—Remote Video Terminal SAV—Staff Assistance Visit SEB—Standardization/Evaluation Board SELO—Standardization/Evaluation Liaison Officer SFO—simulated flame out SIB—Safety Investigation Board SIM—Simulator STAN/EVAL—Standardization & Evaluation SUAS—Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   11  SUASOPS—Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operations SUAS-E—Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Evaluator SUAS-I—Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Instructor SUAS-O—Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operator TDY—Temporary Duty U—Unqualified UA—Unmanned Aircraft UAS—Unmanned Aircraft System UAV—Unmanned Aerial Vehicle USAF—United States Air Force UTD—unit training device VFR—Visual Flight Rules VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions Terms Air traffic—Aircraft operating in the air or on an airport surface, exclusive of loading ramps and parking areas. Bingo  Fuel/Battery—The computed fuel  or battery  capacity remaining at  a point in  flight  that will allow safe return to the point of intended landing with required reserve. Catastrophic failure—Any failure that leads to the loss or destruction of the UA. Command  Chief  Pilot—An  aircrew/SUAS  operator  assigned  to  HQ  AFMC/A3V  or  an appointee  that  assists  the  HQ  Stan/Eval  team  and  conducts  flight  evaluations  on  behalf  of  the headquarters. Controlled  airspace—A generic term that covers the different  classification of airspace (Class A,  Class  B,  Class  C,  Class  D,  and  Class  E  airspace)  and  defined  dimensions  within  which  air traffic  control  service  is  provided  to  instrumented  flight  rules  flights  and  to  VFR  flights  in accordance with the airspace classification (see the Aeronautical Information Manual). Critical  Phase  of  Flight—Takeoff,  low  level  (below  MSA  defined  by  14  CFR  91.119), approach and landing. Director—AFMC civilian equivalent having the same authority as a Squadron Commander Evaluation  Record—Either  the  AF  Form  8as  received  through  completion  of  a  formal  IQT course,  or  the  AF  Form  8a  (or  temporary  AFMC  Form  59)  for  unfielded  test  systems,  as appropriate. Evaluator  (SUAS-E)—A SUAS operator who  conducts  evaluation  of SUAS-Os, SUAS-I,  and other  evaluators  in  designated  SUAS  and  promotes  safety  among  SUAS-Os.  Training  and evaluation include air vehicle operation, qualification, unit employment, visual flight, and crew performance.   12  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 External  Operator  (EO)—The  SUAS  operator  who,  in  the  absence  of  full  automatic  takeoff and  landing  systems,  visually  controls  the  UA  flight  path  through  manual  control  commands directly to the flight controls, generally during takeoff and/or landing. Fuel/Battery Capacity— Normal  Fuel/Battery  Capacity—Fuel state on initial or at the final approach fix such that the aircraft can land with the fuel reserves specified in AFI 11-5FT Vol 3. Minimum Fuel/Battery Capacity—Fuel state, where, upon reaching the destination, the aircraft can  accept  little  or  no  delay.    This  is  not  an  emergency  situation  but  merely  indicates  an emergency situation is possible should any undue delay occur. Emergency  Fuel/Battery  Capacity—Fuel  state  requires  immediate  traffic  priority  to  safely recover  the  aircraft.    An  emergency  will  be  declared  and  the  aircraft  immediately  recovered  at the nearest suitable field. Ground Station Operator (GSO)—Currently referred to as the Internal Operator. Initial Cadre—Normally, those  personnel  assigned  to  conduct  flight  testing of experimental, developmental, or new aircraft for which there are no established formal training programs nor standardized  evaluation  criteria.    For  SUAS  test  systems,  Initial  Cadre  designations  are appropriate  when  there  are  no  Air  Force-trained  SUAS-O/I/E  personnel  already  qualified  to operate, or train or evaluate others in a particular type of aircraft or primary control system, and personnel  must  be  selected  to  complete  a  non-Air  Force  or  mutually  supervised  self-study program  to  attain  qualification.    The  term  “Requal  Cadre”  applies  to  Initial  Cadre  individuals who previously held a qualification in that system. Instructor  (SUAS-I)—A  SUAS  crewmember  who  conducts  training  of  SUAS-Os  and  SUAS unit  trainers  in  designated  SUAS  and  promotes  safety  among  SUAS  crewmembers.  Training include  air  vehicle  operation,  qualification,  unit  employment,  visual  flight,  and  crew performance. Instructor  Supervision—Supervision  by  an  instructor  of  like  specialty  (see  also  Direct Instructor Supervision). Inter-fly—The  exchange  and/or  substitution  of  aircrews/SUAS  operators  and  aircraft  between other MAJCOMS and AFMC.  These forces are not gained by AFMC. Internal Operator (IO)—Formerly referred to as the Ground Station Operator (GSO). A SUAS operator  that  operates  the  UA  from  or  within  a  control  station  that  exercises  complete  control over the air vehicle, normally through an automated/autopilot system. Maintenance—The inspection, overhauls, repairs, preservation, and/or the replacement of parts, but excludes preventive maintenance. Mission  commander  (MC)—The  designated  individual  tasked  with  the  overall  responsibility for the operation and safety of the SUAS mission. National  Airspace  System  (NAS)—All of the airspace above the surface of the earth over the United States and its possessions. Night—The  time  between  the  end  of  evening  nautical  twilight  and  the  beginning  of  morning nautical twilight converted to local time. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   13  Off-Airport—Any  location  used  to  launch  or  recover  an  unmanned  aircraft  that  is  not considered an airport (i.e., an open field). Operational  Risk  Management  (ORM)—A  logic-based  common  sense  approach  to  making calculated  decisions  based  on  human,  machine,  mission,  and  media  factors  before,  during,  and after  Air  Force  operations.    It  enables  commanders,  functional  managers  and  supervisors  to maximize  operational  capabilities  while  minimizing  risks  by  applying  a  simple  systematic process appropriated for all personnel and Air Force functions. Pilot—Referred  to  as  the  SUAS  Operator  (External)      The  SUAS  crewmember  who,  in  the absence  of  full  automatic  takeoff  and  landing  systems,  visually  controls  the  UA  flight  path, generally during takeoff and/or landing. Pilot in Command (PIC)—For SUAS operations, the term “Lead SUAS-O” is used as the PIC-equivalent role in lieu of the term “PIC.”  The person who has final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of flight, has been designated as pilot in command before or during the  flight,  and  holds  the  appropriate  category,  class,  and  type  rating,  if  appropriate,  for  the conduct of the flight. The responsibility and authority of the pilot in command as described by 14 CFR 91.3, Responsibility and Authority of the Pilot in Command, apply to the unmanned aircraft PIC-equivalent,  the  Lead  SUAS-O.  The  pilot  in  command  position  may  rotate  duties  as necessary  with  equally  qualified  pilots.  The  individual  designated  as  PIC  may  change  during flight. Requal Cadre—A subset of Initial Cadre individuals who previously held a qualification in that system.  This situation may exist where a particular unfielded test SUAS system becomes unused for an extended time due to lack of test requirements, and at a later time new  test requirements dictate regenerating a set of operators. Restricted  area—Airspace  designated  in  FAR  1  within  which  the  flight  of  aircraft,  while  not prohibited, is subject to restriction(s). Safety of flight (SOF) messages—Electrically transmitted messages pertaining to any defect or hazardous  condition,  actual  or  potential,  that  can  cause  personal  injury,  death,  or  damage  to aircraft,  components  or  repair  parts  where  a  medium  to  high  risk  safety  condition  has  been determined per AR 385–16. Special use airspace (SUA)—Airspace designated by the FAA with specific vertical and lateral limits,  established  for  the  purpose  of  containing  hazardous  activities  or  activity  that  could  be hazardous  to  nonparticipating  aircraft.  Limitation  on  nonparticipating  aircraft  may  range  from absolute  exclusion  to  complete  freedom  of  use  within  certain  areas,  depending  upon  activity being conducted. Small  Unmanned  Aircraft  Systems  (SUAS)—UAS in Groups 1-3 of the DoD SUAS Groups matrix (see AFI 11-502 Vol 1 or Vol 3). Temporary-2  (T-2)  Modification—T-2  modifications  are  temporary  modification  required  to support  research,  development,  test,  and  evaluation  (RDT&E),  in  service  testing  of  potential replacement items (form, fit, and function), and for aircraft/stores compatibility testing. Traffic pattern—The traffic flow that is prescribed for aircraft landing at, taxiing on, or taking off from an airport or airfield.   14  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 Training  mission—Missions  flown  for  flight  qualification,  refresher,  or  proficiency/currency training; ATP requirements, and authorized training exercises. Unmanned  Aircraft  (UA)—An  aircraft  capable  of  flight  beyond  visual  line  of  sight  under remote or autonomous control for military purposes, primarily for reconnaissance, surveillance, and  other  intelligence  gathering  missions,  as  well  as  for  the  adjustment  of  artillery  and  mortar fire, and may be used in an aerial target spotting/identification role. A UA can be expendable or recoverable,  can  carry  a  payload,  is  not  operated  for  sport  or  hobby,  and  does  not  transport passengers or crew. For purposes of compliance with 14 CFR 1, subchapter A, part 1.1., UAS are to be considered “aircraft,” typically either an “airplane” or “rotorcraft,” as defined in 14 CFR 1, subchapter A, part 1.1. (FAA refers to these aircraft as remotely operated aircraft). Unmanned  Aircraft  System  (UAS)—The  entire  unmanned  aircraft  system  used  to  operate, communicate  and  fly  an  unmanned  aircraft  (UA).  This  includes  the  Unmanned  Aircraft  (UA), Ground Control Station (GCS), Remote Video Terminal (RVT), and communications equipment. It can also include video capture device and portable computer. Visual Line-of-Sight—A method of control and collision avoidance that refers to the operator or observer  directly  viewing  the  unmanned  aircraft  and  its  surroundings  with  human  eyesight. Corrective lenses (spectacles or contact lenses) may be used by the pilot or visual observer. Aids to vision, such as binoculars, field glasses, or telephoto television may be employed to assist as long as their field of view does not adversely affect the surveillance task, but these aids are not normally  acceptable  as  a  primary  visual  reference  for  control  of  the  aircraft  or  collision avoidance during AFRL operations.  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   15  Attachment 2 SUAS OPERATOR (EXTERNAL) EVALUATION CRITERIA A2.1.  General Grading Standards. A2.1.1.  The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into five sections: Ground Phase, General, Qualification, Instructor, and Mission.  Use all sections for criteria applicable to the events  performed  on  the  evaluation.    These  sections  match  the  sections  of  the  SUAS Operator  temporary  flight  evaluation  worksheet  (AFMC  Form  59)  specified  in  the  AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-50V2. A2.1.2.  Evaluate events in Section C with respect to normal duties as it applies to the crew position and aircraft equipment. A2.2.  :  Ground Phase. A2.2.1.  Area A-1:  Publications. A2.2.1.1.  Digital  flight  publications  and  operating  manuals  are  approved  for  use  by individual SUAS operators. A2.2.1.2.  Q.  Assigned  flight  publications  or  operating  manual  were  current,  complete, and usable for any of the unit’s tasking. A2.2.1.3.  Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or errors; however,  contained  everything  necessary  to  effectively  accomplish  the  mission  and  did not compromise safety of flight. A2.2.1.4.  U.  Contained  major  deviations,  omissions,  and/or  errors  which  compromise safety of flight. A2.2.2.  Area A-2:  Emergency Procedures Evaluation. A2.2.2.1.  Q.  Displayed  correct,  immediate  response  to  Boldface  and  non-Boldface emergency situations. Effectively used checklist. A2.2.2.2.  Q-. Response to Boldface emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain areas of  non-Boldface  emergencies  or  follow-on  steps to  Boldface  procedures  was slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data. A2.2.2.3.  U. Incorrect response for Boldface emergency. Unable to analyze problems or take  corrective  action.  Did  not  use  checklist,  or  lacks  acceptable  familiarity  with  its arrangement or contents. A2.3.  :  General. A2.3.1.  Area B-1:  Safety (Critical). A2.3.1.1.  Q.  Aware  of  and  complied  with  all  safety  factors  required  for  safe  SUAS operation and mission accomplishment. A2.3.1.2.  U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe operation or mission accomplishment. A. clear lack of judgment hampered or precluded mission accomplishment. Allowed a dangerous situation to develop without taking proper corrective action or notifying other crew members.   16  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A2.3.2.  Area B-2:  Judgment (Critical). A2.3.2.1.  Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. A2.3.2.2.  U.  Decisions  or  lack  thereof  resulted  in  failure  to  accomplish  the  assigned mission.  Demonstrated  poor  judgment  to  the  extent  that  safety  could  have  been compromised. A2.3.3.  Area B-3:  Flight Discipline (Critical). A2.3.3.1.  Q.  Demonstrated  strict  professional  flight  and  crew  discipline  throughout  all phases of the mission. A2.3.3.2.  U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or instructions. A2.3.4.  Area B-4:  Briefings. A2.3.4.1.  Q. Well organized and presented in a logical sequence. Concluded briefing in a timely manner for the circumstances given and the mission profile. Presented briefing in a  professional  manner.  Effective  use  of  training/visual  aids.  Flight  members  clearly understood  mission  requirements.  Established  objectives  for  the  mission.  Presented  all training  events  and  effective  technique  discussion  for  accomplishing  the  mission. Considered  the  abilities  of  all  flight  members.  Briefed  corrective  action  from  previous mission and probable problem areas when appropriate. A2.3.4.2.  Q-.  Events  out  of  sequence,  hard  to  follow,  some  redundancy.  Did  not  make effective  use  of  available  training/visual  aids.  Dwelled  on  non-essential  mission  items. Omitted some minor training events. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not consider all flight members' abilities. Did not identify probable problem areas. A2.3.4.3.  U.  Confusing  presentation.  Did  not  allow  time  for  element/crew  briefing  (if applicable)  and  preflight  of  personal  equipment,  aircraft  and  ordnance.  Did  not  use training  aids.  Redundant interest  of  flight  members. Presentation  created  doubts  or  confusion.  Did  not  establish  objectives  for  the  mission. Omitted  major  training  events  or  did  not  discuss  techniques.  Ignored  flight  members' abilities and past problem areas. throughout  briefing.  Lost A2.3.5.  Area B-5:  Personal Equipment. A2.3.5.1.  Q.  Thoroughly  familiar  with  personal  equipment  requirements,  usage,  and preflight. A2.3.5.2.  Q-.  Possessed  required  personal  equipment  items  and  was  familiar  with  most of the preflight and usage procedures. A2.3.5.3.  U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage. A2.3.6.  Area B-6:  Forms, Reports, Logs. A2.3.6.1.  Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post flight forms and documentation without significant error. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   17  A2.3.6.2.  Q-.  Completed  or  supervised  completion  of  all  required  preflight  and  post flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected. A2.3.6.3.  U.  Forms  were  incomplete,  improperly  filled  out.  Data  on  forms  inaccurate detracting from recording the mission data. A2.3.7.  Area B-7:  Flight Planning. A2.3.7.1.  Q.  Developed  a  sound  plan  to  accomplish  the  mission.  Checked  all  factors applicable to  flight  in  accordance with  applicable directives. Considered NAS rules and requirements  such  as  VFR  requirements,  airspeed  restrictions  and  potential  traffic conflicts.  Developed  contingencies  to  mitigate  potential  risks.  Aware  of  alternatives available, if flight cannot be completed as planned. Read and initialed for all items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read Files. Prepared at briefing time. A2.3.7.2.  Q-.  Same  as  above,  except  minor  error(s)  or  omission(s)  that  did  not  detract from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas. A2.3.7.3.  U.  Made  major  error(s)  or  omission(s)  that  would  have  prevented  a  safe  or effective  mission.  Displayed  faulty  knowledge  of  operating  data  or  procedures.  Did  not review or initial Go/No-Go items. Not prepared at briefing time. A2.3.8.  Area B-8:  Use of Checklists. A2.3.8.1.  Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with no deviations or omissions. A2.3.8.2.  Q-. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted. A2.3.8.3.  U.  Failed  to  use  current  checklist  or  deviated  from  checklist  procedures resulting in the mission being compromised. A2.3.9.  Area B-9:  Crew Resource Management. A2.3.9.1.  Q.  Coordinated  effectively  with  other  crewmembers/mission  personnel. Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions. A2.3.9.2.  Q-.  Coordinated  satisfactorily  with  other  crewmembers/mission  personnel. Some instructions were not clear and concise. A2.3.9.3.  U.  Failed  to  coordinate  with  crewmembers/mission  personnel.  Did  not  give clear  and  concise  instructions.  Failed  to  utilize  resources  causing  degradation  of  the mission. A2.3.10.  Area B-10:  Communication Procedures. A2.3.10.1.  Q.  Radio  and  intra-crew  communications  were  concise,  accurate  and effective. A2.3.10.2.  Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment. A2.3.10.3.  U. Radio  or intra-crew communications over primary/secondary radios  were inadequate or excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.   18  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A2.3.11.  Area B-11:  Knowledge of Directives. A2.3.11.1.  Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of SUAS aircraft systems,  limitations and performance characteristics. A2.3.11.2.  Q-.  Knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems,  limitations,  and  performance characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either in depth of knowledge or comprehension. A2.3.11.3.  U.  Demonstrated  unsatisfactory  knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems, limitations or performance characteristics. A2.4.  :  SUAS External Operator Qualification. A2.4.1.  Area C-1:  Performance Data. A2.4.1.1.  Q. Accurately computed/reviewed all required takeoff and landing data. Aware of  abort  considerations,  runway  condition,  weather,  impact  of  weather  on  mission accomplishment. A2.4.1.2.  Q-.  Computed/reviewed  required  takeoff  data  with  minor  omissions  or  errors which did not detract from mission accomplishment or safety. A2.4.1.3.  U.  Major  errors  or  omissions  which  compromise  safety.  Faulty  or  improper knowledge of performance data. A2.4.2.  Area C-2:  Preflight Inspection. A2.4.2.1.  Q.  Established  and  adhered  to  station,  engine  start,  taxi  and  take-off  times  to assure  thorough  preflight,  check  of  personal  equipment,  crew  briefing,  etc.  Accurately determined readiness of aircraft for flight. A2.4.2.2.  Q-.  Minor  procedural  deviations  which  did  not  detract  from  the  overall mission. A2.4.2.3.  U.  Major  deviations  in  procedure  which  would  preclude  safe  mission accomplishment.  Failed  to  accurately  determine  readiness  of  aircraft  for  flight.  Crew errors directly  contributed to  a late takeoff which degraded the mission or made it non-effective. A2.4.3.  Area C-3:  Engine Start. A2.4.3.1.  Q.  Accomplished  engine  start  IAW  flight  manual/test  card  procedures  and checklists. A2.4.3.2.  Q-.  Accomplished  engine  start  with  significant  omissions  or  deviations  from flight manual/test card checklist procedures that did not affect safety. A2.4.3.3.  U.  Omitted  required  procedures.  Deviations  to  flight  manual/test  card  which could potentially damage aircraft or mission equipment. A2.4.4.  Area C-4:  Taxi and Takeoff. A2.4.4.1.  Q.  Completed  all  taxi  checks  correctly  in  accordance  with  flight  manual  and local/test card procedures. Operated aircraft safely. Performed takeoff in accordance with flight manual/test card procedures and techniques. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   19  A2.4.4.2.  Q-. Deviated from taxi checks in accordance with flight manual and local/test card  procedures.  Operated  aircraft  safely.  Deviated  from  with  flight  manual/test  card procedures and techniques during takeoff. A2.4.4.3.  U. Failed to coordinate with ground crew and safety observer prior to aircraft movement.  Failed  to  adequately  monitor  taxi  route  or  takeoff  operation.  Intervention required to prevent damage to aircraft.  Takeoff potentially dangerous.  Exceeded aircraft systems limitations or would have exceeded aircraft limitations without intervention. A2.4.5.  Area C-5:  Climb Procedures. A2.4.5.1.  Q.  Climb  was  IAW  the  applicable  flight  manual,  or  mission  flight  plan/test cards. A2.4.5.2.  Q-. Some under or over-control. Flight manual, or mission flight plan/test card deviations significant but did not affect safety of flight or mission accomplishment. A2.4.5.3.  U.  Failed  to  comply  with  flight  manual,  or  mission  flight  plan/test  card procedures. Major deviation affecting safety and mission accomplishment. A2.4.6.  Area C-6:  Basic Control. A2.4.6.1.  Q. Monitored basic aircraft control within specified tolerances dictated by the software and mission plan. Promptly reacted to flight deviations as a result of anomalies, contingency  reaction  triggered  by  software  and  aircraft  conditions,  manual  initiated overrides, etc. A2.4.6.2.  Q-.  Minor  procedural  deviations,  which  did  not  detract  from  the  overall mission. A2.4.6.3.  U.  Failed  to  anticipate  vehicle  actions  dictated  by  the  software  and  mission plan. Failed to monitor basic aircraft control. Failed to promptly react to flight deviations. A2.4.7.  Area C-7:  Traffic Pattern. A2.4.7.1.  Q. Performed patterns/approaches IAW procedures outlined in the SUAS flight manual,  operational  procedures  and  local  directives/test  cards.  Aircraft  control  was smooth  and  positive.  Accurately  aligned  with  runway.  Maintained  proper/briefed airspeed/AOA. Airspeed -5/+10 knots. A2.4.7.2.  Q-.  Performed  patterns/approaches  with  minor  deviations  to  procedures outlined  in  the  SUAS  flight  manual,  operational  procedures  and  local  directives/test cards.  Aircraft  control  was  not  consistently  smooth,  but  safe.  Alignment  with  runway varied. Slow to correct to proper/briefed airspeed/AOA/ Airspeed -5/+15 knots. A2.4.7.3.  U.  Approaches  not  performed  IAW  procedures  outlined  in  the  SUAS  flight manual,  operational  procedures  and  local  directives/test  cards.  Erratic  aircraft  control. Large deviations in runway alignment. Exceeded Q- parameters. A2.4.8.  Area C-8--Go-Around: A2.4.8.1.  Q. Initiated and performed go-around promptly IAW SUAS flight manual and operational procedures and directives/test cards. A2.4.8.2.  Q-. Slow to initiate go-around or procedural steps.   20  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A2.4.8.3.  U.  Did  not  self-initiate  go-around  when  appropriate.  Techniques  unsafe  or applied  incorrect  procedures.    Erratic  aircraft  control.    Large  deviations  in  runway alignment. A2.4.9.  Area  C-9--Engine-Out  Traffic  Pattern.  Evaluate  actions  taken  in  response  to actual or simulated emergencies that occur during the flight check (in-flight or on the ground) until the flight examiner declares the evaluation of the emergency procedure terminated. A2.4.9.1.  Q.  Performed  emergency  procedures  IAW  applicable  directives.  Used  sound judgment.  Configured  at  the  appropriate  position/altitude.  Smooth  positive  control  of aircraft.  Able  to  prioritize  actions  to  safely  recover  the  aircraft.  Maintained  aircraft control within appropriate standards. A2.4.9.2.  Q-. Performed emergency procedures with minor deviations, omissions, and/or errors from applicable directives. Configured at a position and altitude, which allowed for a  safe  approach.  Minor  deviations  from  procedures  and  altitudes/unnecessary maneuvering  due  to  minor  errors  in  planning  or  judgment;  however,  did  not  jeopardize the safe recovery of the aircraft. A2.4.9.3.  U.  Did  not  comply  with  applicable  procedures.  Erratic  airspeed  control compounded problems associated with the emergency. Performed emergency procedures with  major  deviations,  omissions,  and/or  errors  from  recommended  procedures  and altitudes.  Required  excessive  maneuvering  due  to  inadequate  planning  or  judgment. Unable to safely recover the aircraft. A2.4.10.  Area C-10:  In-flight Planning.  This area assesses the examinee’s ability to adapt to real-world constraints and effectively anticipate and adjust preplanned mission elements as necessary throughout the mission. A2.4.10.1.  Q.  Effectively  performed  in-flight  planning,  including  changing  profile  by adding,  deleting,  or  adjusting  route  segments,  data  collections,  mission  events  or  test points,  as  required.  Effectively  adapted  to  dynamic  changes  in  mission  plan. Demonstrated  ability  to  adjust  mission  profile  to  comply  with  time/fuel  limitations, weather, area limits, mission constraints and objectives. A2.4.10.2.  Q-. In-flight  planning included minor deviations, which did not compromise safety, or significantly detract from the mission. A2.4.10.3.  U.  Unable  to  re-plan  inflight,  or  adapt  to  changing  mission  requirements. Consistently  behind  the  aircraft.  Action  or  inaction  compromised  safety  and  successful mission accomplishment. A2.4.11.  Area C-11:  Unusual Attitudes. A2.4.11.1.  Q. Smooth, positive recovery to level flight with correct recovery procedures. A2.4.11.2.  Q-  Slow  to  analyze  attitude,  or  erratic  in  recovery  to  level  flight.  Correct recovery procedures used. A2.4.11.3.  U. Unable to determine attitude. Improper recovery procedures were used. A2.4.12.  Area C-12: Slow Flight and Approach to Stall/Stalls. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   21  A2.4.12.1.  Q.  Understands  elements  related  to  slow  flight  maneuvering.  Can  discern imminent  stall  indications  and  smoothly,  positively  and  expeditiously  recovers  with minimum or no loss of altitude, attitude or heading.  Recovers from stall (if performed) similarly without entering secondary stall. A2.4.12.2.  Q-  Understands  elements  related  to  slow  flight  maneuvering,  but  recovers aircraft  with  some,  but  acceptable  loss  of  altitude,  with  minimal  loss  of  attitude  and heading.    Recovers  from  stall  (if  performed)  with  minor  deviations,  without  entering secondary stall. A2.4.12.3.  U.  Displays  lack  of  understanding  of  slow  flight  maneuvering  concepts. Cannot maintain heading or altitude in slow flight.  Cannot discern conditions leading to stall.  Triggers secondary stall. A2.4.13.  Area  C-13:  Crosscheck  /  Division  of  Attention.    This  area  assesses  the examinee’s ability to properly prioritize and allocate his/her attention to relevant tasks. A2.4.13.1.  Q. Performed proper crosscheck of SUAS flight parameters (attitude, altitude, speed, heading) during all phases of flight. Maintained situational awareness as necessary to comply with ATC instructions and mission plan changes. A2.4.13.2.  Q-.  Minor  deviations  in  crosscheck  which  did  not  compromise  safety  or significantly detract from successful mission accomplishment. A2.4.13.3.  U.  Improper  or  ineffective  crosscheck.  Unable  to  maintain  situational awareness. Failed to recognize actual or potential conflicts or system faults. A2.4.14.  Area  C-14:  Descent,  Approach,  and  Landing.  Includes manual  and/or external operator aided (if applicable) approach. A2.4.14.1.  Q. Preformed correct procedures and maintained pattern to comply with ATC instructions  and  procedures.  Maintained  basic  control  and  position  orientation  within aircraft performance limitations. Complied with mission plan approach and flight manual standards/test cards. A2.4.14.2.  Q-.  Landing  accomplished  with  significant  deviations procedures but safety was not affected. to  established landing  and  ground  operations.  Incorrect  or A2.4.14.3.  U.  Failed inappropriate  procedures.  Unable  to  maintain  position  orientation  or  ATC  assigned airspace. Unsafe control inputs jeopardized safety. to  monitor A2.4.15.  Area C-15:  After Landing. A2.4.15.1.  Q.  Appropriate  after  landing  checks  and  aircraft  taxi  procedures  were accomplished. A2.4.15.2.  Q-.  Significant  deviations  or  omissions  from  established  procedures  but safety and mission effectiveness were not affected. A2.4.15.3.  U.  Checks  were  not  accomplished  in  timely  manner.  Errors  of  omission committed without correction. A2.4.16.  Area C-16:  Systems Knowledge.   22  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A2.4.16.1.  Q.  Thorough  knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems,  limitations,  and performance characteristics. A2.4.16.2.  Q-.  Knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems,  limitation,  and  performance characteristics  sufficient  to  perform  the  mission  safely.  Deficiencies  either  in  depth  of knowledge or comprehension. A2.4.16.3.  U. Unfamiliar with systems operation. Unable to recall details, ops limits, or operational processes. A2.4.17.  Area C-17:  NAS Rules and Procedures. A2.4.17.1.  Q.  Complied  with  NAS  rules/requirements  and  airspeed  restrictions  or potential traffic conflicts within NAS. A2.4.17.2.  Q-. Same as above but minor deviations detracted from safe accomplishment of the mission. A2.4.17.3.  U.  Unfamiliar  with  NAS  rules  and  procedures.  Unaware  of  potential  traffic conflicts. Did not use appropriate risk mitigating tools. A2.5.  :  SUAS Operator (Internal) and Payload Operator Qualification.  (See Attch 3) A2.6.  :  Instructor. A2.6.1.  Area E-1:  Instructional Ability. A2.6.1.1.  Q.  Demonstrated  ability  to  communicate  effectively.  Provided  appropriate corrective guidance when necessary. A2.6.1.2.  Q-.  Instruction  was  essentially  correct  with  some  deviations  or  omissions. Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions. A2.6.1.3.  U.  Inability  to  effectively  communicate  with  the  student.  Did  not  provide corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems. A2.6.2.  Area E-2:  Briefing/Debriefing. A2.6.2.1.  Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student’s present  level  of  training  and  defined  mission  events  to  be  performed.  Excellent  ability during  critique  to  reconstruct  the  flight,  offer  mission  analysis,  and  provide  corrective guidance  where  appropriate.  Completed  all  training  documents  in  accordance  with prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to standard. Briefed the student’s requirements for the next mission. A2.6.2.2.  Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents that did not affect student progress. A2.6.2.3.  U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student’s training folder  or  past  performance.  Failed  to  adequately  critique  student  or  provide  complete mission  analysis.  Training  syllabi  grade  did  not  reflect  actual  performance  of  student. Comments  in  training  folder  were  incomplete.  Strengths  and  weaknesses  were  not identified.  Overlooked  or  omitted  major  discrepancies.  Incomplete  briefing  of  student’s training requirements/objectives for mission. A2.6.3.  Area E-3:  Demonstration and Performance. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   23  A2.6.3.1.  Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of SUAS aircraft systems, procedures, and all applicable publications and regulations. A2.6.3.2.  Q-.  Minor  discrepancies  in  the  above  criteria  that  did  not  affect  safety  or adversely affect student performance. A2.6.3.3.  U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient knowledge about SUAS aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper source material. A2.6.4.  Area E-4:  Conduct of the Mission. A2.6.4.1.  Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. A2.6.4.2.  Q-.  Untimely  or inappropriate  decisions  degraded  or  prevented accomplishment  of a portion of the mission. Resources were not  effectively used to  the extent specific mission objectives were not achieved. A2.6.4.3.  U.  Mission  execution  prevented  accomplishment  of  a  major  portion  of  the mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly. A2.7.  :  Mission (If applicable). A2.7.1.  Area F-1:  Knowledge. A2.7.1.1.  Q.  Fully  knowledgeable  in  mission  requirements,  test  plan  directives,  SUAS limitations,  and  partial  flight  manual.  Effectively  coordinated  with  other  crew  members and project personnel. A2.7.1.2.  Q-.  Demonstrated  a  limited  knowledge  of  mission  requirements,  test  plan directives, SUAS limitations, or the partial flight manual which degraded a portion of the mission objective or CRM. A2.7.1.3.  U.  Inadequate  knowledge  of  mission  requirements,  test  plan  directive,  SUAS limitations, and partial flight manual. Did not effectively use resources. Directly affected successful mission accomplishment. A2.7.2.  Area F-2:  Planning. A2.7.2.1.  Q.  Considered  all  factors  necessary  for  mission  accomplishment  to  include weather, mission profile, airspace utilization/restrictions, and proper documentation. A2.7.2.2.  Q-. Limited consideration of all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. However, did not affect mission objective directly, but may have contributed toward lack of effective CRM. A2.7.2.3.  U. Did not consider all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. Lack of consideration contributed negatively towards successful mission completion. A2.7.3.  Area F-3:  Execution. A2.7.3.1.  Q. Accomplished major mission objectives in a timely and skillful manner. A2.7.3.2.  Q-.  Errors  or  omission  were  made  which  did  not  render  mission  ineffective, but indicated a definite need for additional training.   24  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A2.7.3.3.  U. Improper execution of duties negatively impacted mission accomplishment. A2.7.4.  Area F-4:  Other Areas (As Required).  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   25  Attachment 3 SUAS OPERATOR (INTERNAL) AND PAYLOAD OPERATOR EVALUATION CRITERIA A3.1.  General Grading Standards. A3.1.1.  The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into five sections: Ground Phase, General, Qualification, Instructor, and Mission. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the events  performed  on  the  evaluation.  These  sections  match  the  sections  of  the  SUAS-O Internal flight evaluation worksheet specified in the AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-50V2. A3.1.2.  Evaluate events in Section D with respect to aircraft equipment and normal duties as it pertains to the applicable crew position. A3.2.  :  Ground Phase. A3.2.1.  Area A-1:  Publications. A3.2.1.1.  Digital  flight  publications  and  operating  manuals  are  approved  for  use  by individual SUAS operators. A3.2.1.2.  Q.  Assigned  flight  publications  or  operating  manual  were  current,  complete, and usable for any of the unit’s tasking. A3.2.1.3.  Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or errors; however,  contained  everything  necessary  to  effectively  accomplish  the  mission  and  did not compromise safety of flight. A3.2.1.4.  U.  Contained  major  deviations,  omissions,  and/or  errors  which  compromise safety of flight. A3.2.2.  Area A-2:  Emergency Procedures Evaluation. A3.2.2.1.  Q.  Displayed  correct,  immediate  response  to  Boldface  and  non-Boldface emergency situations. Effectively used checklist. A3.2.2.2.  Q-. Response to Boldface emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain areas of  non-Boldface  emergencies  or  follow-on  steps to  Boldface  procedures  was slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data. A3.2.2.3.  U. Incorrect response for Boldface emergency. Unable to analyze problems or take  corrective  action.  Did  not  use  checklist,  or  lacks  acceptable  familiarity  with  its arrangement or contents. A3.3.  :  General. A3.3.1.  Area B-1:  Safety (Critical). A3.3.1.1.  Q.  Aware  of  and  complied  with  all  safety  factors  required  for  safe  SUAS operation and mission accomplishment. A3.3.1.2.  U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe operation or mission accomplishment. A. clear lack of judgment hampered or precluded mission accomplishment. Allowed a dangerous situation to develop without taking proper corrective action or notifying other crew members.   26  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A3.3.2.  Area B-2:  Judgment (Critical). A3.3.2.1.  Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. A3.3.2.2.  U.  Decisions  or  lack  thereof  resulted  in  failure  to  accomplish  the  assigned mission.  Demonstrated  poor  judgment  to  the  extent  that  safety  could  have  been compromised. A3.3.3.  Area B-3:  Flight Discipline (Critical). A3.3.3.1.  Q.  Demonstrated  strict  professional  flight  and  crew  discipline  throughout  all phases of the mission. A3.3.3.2.  U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or instructions. A3.3.4.  Area B-4:  Briefings. A3.3.4.1.  Q. Well organized and presented in a logical sequence. Concluded briefing in a timely manner for the circumstances given and the mission profile. Presented briefing in a  professional  manner.  Effective  use  of  training/visual  aids.  Flight  members  clearly understood  mission  requirements.  Established  objectives  for  the  mission.  Presented  all training  events  and  effective  technique  discussion  for  accomplishing  the  mission. Considered  the  abilities  of  all  flight  members.  Briefed  corrective  action  from  previous mission and probable problem areas when appropriate. A3.3.4.2.  Q-.  Events  out  of  sequence,  hard  to  follow,  some  redundancy.  Did  not  make effective  use  of  available  training/visual  aids.  Dwelled  on  non-essential  mission  items. Omitted some minor training events. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not consider all flight members' abilities. Did not identify probable problem areas. A3.3.4.3.  U.  Confusing  presentation.  Did  not  allow  time  for  element/crew  briefing  (if applicable)  and  preflight  of  personal  equipment,  aircraft  and  ordnance.  Did  not  use training  aids.  Redundant interest  of  flight  members. Presentation  created  doubts  or  confusion.  Did  not  establish  objectives  for  the  mission. Omitted  major  training  events  or  did  not  discuss  techniques.  Ignored  flight  members' abilities and past problem areas. throughout  briefing.  Lost A3.3.5.  Area B-5:  Personal Equipment. A3.3.5.1.  Q.  Thoroughly  familiar  with  personal  equipment  requirements,  usage,  and preflight. A3.3.5.2.  Q-.  Possessed  required  personal  equipment  items  and  was  familiar  with  most of the preflight and usage procedures. A3.3.5.3.  U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage. A3.3.6.  Area B-6:  Forms, Reports, Logs. A3.3.6.1.  Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post flight forms and documentation without significant error. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   27  A3.3.6.2.  Q-.  Completed  or  supervised  completion  of  all  required  preflight  and  post flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected. A3.3.6.3.  U.  Forms  were  incomplete,  improperly  filled  out.  Data  on  forms  inaccurate detracting from recording the mission data. A3.3.7.  Area B-7:  Flight Planning. A3.3.7.1.  Q.  Developed  a  sound  plan  to  accomplish  the  mission.  Checked  all  factors applicable to  flight  in  accordance with  applicable directives. Considered NAS rules and requirements  such  as  VFR  requirements,  airspeed  restrictions  and  potential  traffic conflicts.  Developed  contingencies  to  mitigate  potential  risks.  Aware  of  alternatives available, if flight cannot be completed as planned. Read and initialed for all items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read Files. Prepared at briefing time. A3.3.7.2.  Q-.  Same  as  above,  except  minor  error(s)  or  omission(s)  that  did  not  detract from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas. A3.3.7.3.  U.  Made  major  error(s)  or  omission(s)  that  would  have  prevented  a  safe  or effective  mission.  Displayed  faulty  knowledge  of  operating  data  or  procedures.  Did  not review or initial Go/No-Go items. Not prepared at briefing time. A3.3.8.  Area B-8:  Use of Checklists. A3.3.8.1.  Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with no deviations or omissions. A3.3.8.2.  Q-. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted. A3.3.8.3.  U.  Failed  to  use  current  checklist  or  deviated  from  checklist  procedures resulting in the mission being compromised. A3.3.9.  Area B-9:  Crew Resource Management. A3.3.9.1.  Q.  Coordinated  effectively  with  other  crewmembers/mission  personnel. Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions. A3.3.9.2.  Q-.  Coordinated  satisfactorily  with  other  crewmembers/mission  personnel. Some instructions were not clear and concise. A3.3.9.3.  U.  Failed  to  coordinate  with  crewmembers/mission  personnel.  Did  not  give clear  and  concise  instructions.  Failed  to  utilize  resources  causing  degradation  of  the mission. A3.3.10.  Area B-10:  Communication Procedures. A3.3.10.1.  Q.  Radio  and  intra-crew  communications  were  concise,  accurate  and effective. A3.3.10.2.  Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment. A3.3.10.3.  U. Radio  or intra-crew communications over primary/secondary radios  were inadequate or excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.   28  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A3.3.11.  Area B-11:  Knowledge of Directives. A3.3.11.1.  Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of SUAS aircraft systems,  limitations and performance characteristics. A3.3.11.2.  Q-.  Knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems,  limitations,  and  performance characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either in depth of knowledge or comprehension. A3.3.11.3.  U.  Demonstrated  unsatisfactory  knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems, limitations or performance characteristics. A3.4.  :  SUAS Operator (External) Qualification. (See Attch 2) A3.5.  :  SUAS Operator (Internal) and Payload Operator Qualification. A3.5.1.  May be accomplished in an approved simulator. A3.5.2.  Area D-1:  Performance Data. A3.5.2.1.  Q. Accurately computed/reviewed all required takeoff/launch and landing data. Aware of abort considerations, runway condition, weather, impact of weather on mission accomplishment. A3.5.2.2.  Q-.  Computed/reviewed  required  takeoff  data  with  minor  omissions  or  errors which did not detract from mission accomplishment or safety. A3.5.2.3.  U.  Major  errors  or  omissions  which  compromise  safety.  Faulty  or  improper knowledge of performance data. A3.5.3.  Area D-2:  Preflight Inspection. A3.5.3.1.  Q.  Established  and  adhered  to  station,  engine  start,  taxi  and  take-off  times  to assure  thorough  preflight,  check  of  personal  equipment,  crew  briefing,  etc.  Accurately determined readiness of aircraft for flight. A3.5.3.2.  Q-.  Minor  procedural  deviations  which  did  not  detract  from  the  overall mission. A3.5.3.3.  U.  Major  deviations  in  procedure  which  would  preclude  safe  mission accomplishment.  Failed  to  accurately  determine  readiness  of  aircraft  for  flight.  Crew errors directly  contributed to  a late takeoff which degraded the mission or made it non-effective. A3.5.4.  Area D-3:  Engine Start. A3.5.4.1.  Q.  Accomplished  engine  start checklists/test cards. IAW flight  manual  procedures  and A3.5.4.2.  Q-.  Accomplished  engine  start  with  significant  omissions  or  deviations  from flight manual checklist/test cards procedures that did not affect safety. A3.5.4.3.  U.  Omitted  required  procedures.  Deviations  to  flight  manual/test  cards  which could potentially damage aircraft or mission equipment. A3.5.5.  Area D-4:  Taxi and Takeoff/Launch. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   29  A3.5.5.1.  Q.  Completed  all  taxi  checks  correctly  in  accordance  with  flight  manual  and local/test  card  procedures.  Operated  aircraft  safely.  Performed  takeoff/launch  in accordance with flight manual/test card procedures and techniques. A3.5.5.2.  Q-. Deviated from taxi checks in accordance with flight manual and local/test card  procedures.  Operated  aircraft  safely.  Deviated  from  with  flight  manual/test  card procedures and techniques during takeoff/launch. A3.5.5.3.  U. Failed to coordinate with ground crew and safety observer prior to aircraft movement.  Failed  to  adequately  monitor  taxi  route  or  takeoff  operation.  Intervention required to prevent damage to aircraft.  Takeoff/launch potentially dangerous.  Exceeded aircraft  systems  limitations  or  would  have  exceeded  aircraft  limitations  without intervention. A3.5.6.  Area D-5:  Climb Procedures. A3.5.6.1.  Q.  Climb  was  IAW  the  applicable  flight  manual  or  mission  flight  plan/test cards. A3.5.6.2.  Q-. Some under or over-control. Flight manual or mission flight plan/test card deviations significant but did not affect safety of flight or mission accomplishment. A3.5.6.3.  U.  Failed  to  comply  with  flight  manual  or  mission  flight  plan/test  card procedures. Major deviation affecting safety and mission accomplishment. A3.5.7.  Area D-6:  Basic Control. A3.5.7.1.  Q. Monitored basic aircraft control within specified tolerances dictated by the software and mission plan. Promptly reacted to flight deviations as a result of anomalies, contingency  reaction  triggered  by  software  and  aircraft  conditions,  manual  initiated overrides, etc. A3.5.7.2.  Q-.  Minor  procedural  deviations,  which  did  not  detract  from  the  overall mission. A3.5.7.3.  U.  Failed  to  anticipate  vehicle  actions  dictated  by  the  software  and  mission plan. Failed to monitor basic aircraft control. Failed to promptly react to flight deviations. A3.5.8.  Area D-7:  Traffic Pattern. A3.5.8.1.  Q. Performed patterns/approaches IAW procedures outlined in the SUAS flight manual,  operational  procedures  and  local  directives//test  cards.  Aircraft  control  was smooth  and  positive.  Accurately  aligned  with  runway.  Maintained  proper/briefed airspeed/AOA. Airspeed -5/+10 knots. A3.5.8.2.  Q-.  Performed  patterns/approaches  with  minor  deviations  to  procedures outlined  in  the  SUAS  flight  manual,  operational  procedures  and  local  directives/test cards.  Aircraft  control  was  not  consistently  smooth,  but  safe.  Alignment  with  runway varied. Slow to correct to proper/briefed airspeed/AOA/ Airspeed -5/+15 knots. A3.5.8.3.  U.  Approaches  not  performed  IAW  procedures  outlined  in  the  SUAS  flight manual,  operational  procedures  and  local  directives/test  cards.  Erratic  aircraft  control. Large deviations in runway alignment. Exceeded Q- parameters. A3.5.9.  Area D-8:  Go-Around.   30  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A3.5.9.1.  Q. Initiated and performed go-around promptly IAW SUAS flight manual and operational procedures and directives/test cards. A3.5.9.2.  Q-. Slow to initiate go-around or procedural steps. A3.5.9.3.  U.  Did  not  self-initiate  go-around  when  appropriate.  Techniques  unsafe  or applied  incorrect  procedures.  Erratic  aircraft  control.  Large  deviations  in  runway alignment. A3.5.10.  Area  D-9:  Engine-Out  Traffic  Pattern.  Evaluate  actions  taken  in  response  to actual or simulated emergencies that occur during the flight check (in-flight or on the ground) until the flight examiner declares the evaluation of the emergency procedure terminated. A3.5.10.1.  Q. Performed emergency procedures IAW applicable directives. Used sound judgment.  Configured  at  the  appropriate  position/altitude.  Smooth  positive  control  of aircraft.  Able  to  prioritize  actions  to  safely  recover  the  aircraft.  Maintained  aircraft control within appropriate standards. A3.5.10.2.  Q-.  Performed  emergency  procedures  with  minor  deviations,  omissions, and/or  errors  from  applicable  directives.  Configured  at  a  position  and  altitude,  which allowed for a safe approach. Minor deviations from procedures and altitudes/unnecessary maneuvering  due  to  minor  errors  in  planning  or  judgment;  however,  did  not  jeopardize the safe recovery of the aircraft. A3.5.10.3.  U.  Did  not  comply  with  applicable  procedures.  Erratic  airspeed  control compounded problems associated with the emergency. Performed emergency procedures with  major  deviations,  omissions,  and/or  errors  from  recommended  procedures  and altitudes.  Required  excessive  maneuvering  due  to  inadequate  planning  or  judgment. Unable to safely recover the aircraft. A3.5.11.  Area D-7:  In-flight Planning. A3.5.11.1.  Q.  Effectively  performed  in-flight  planning,  including  changing  profile  by adding or deleting route segments or collections. Effectively adapted to dynamic changes in mission plan. Demonstrated ability to adjust mission profile to comply with time/fuel limitations, weather, area limits, mission constraints and objectives. A3.5.11.2.  Q-. In-flight  planning included minor deviations, which did not compromise safety, or significantly detract from the mission. A3.5.11.3.  U.  Unable  to  re-plan  inflight,  or  adapt  to  changing  mission  requirements. Consistently  behind  the  aircraft.  Action  or  inaction  compromised  safety  and  successful mission accomplishment. A3.5.12.  Area D-8:  Override Commands A3.5.12.1.  Q.  Concise  operation  of  override  commands  including  throttle  and  primary flight  control  override  in  response  to  aircraft  or  autopilot  malfunction  simulated  by evaluator.  Successfully  recognized  actual  or  potential  conflicts,  and  adjusted  aircraft performance to safely avoid these conflicts. A3.5.12.2.  Q-. Operation of override commands included minor deviations which did not compromise safety or significantly detract from successful mission accomplishment. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   31  A3.5.12.3.  U.  Improper  or  inappropriate  operation  of  override  commands  which compromised safety of significantly detracted from successful mission accomplishment. A3.5.13.  Area  D-9:  Crosscheck/Division  of  attention.  This  area  assesses  the  examinee’s ability to properly prioritize and allocate his/her attention to relevant tasks. A3.5.13.1.  Q.  Performed  proper  crosscheck  of  SUAS  aircraft  system  status  (comm  and data  links,  power/fuel,  etc)  and  flight  parameters  (attitude,  altitude,  speed,  heading) during all phases of flight. Maintained situational awareness as necessary to comply with ATC instructions and mission plan changes. A3.5.13.2.  Q-.  Minor  deviations  in  crosscheck  which  did  not  compromise  safety  or significantly detract from successful mission accomplishment. A3.5.13.3.  U.  Improper  or  ineffective  crosscheck.  Unable  to  maintain  situational awareness. Failed to recognize actual or potential conflicts or system faults. A3.5.14.  Area  D-10:  Descent,  Approach,  and  Landing.  Includes  manual  and/or  GCS command holding, enroute descent and GPS aided approach. A3.5.14.1.  Q. Preformed correct procedures and maintained pattern to comply with ATC instructions  and  procedures.  Maintained  basic  control  and  position  orientation  within aircraft performance limitations. Complied with mission plan approach and flight manual standards/test cards. A3.5.14.2.  Q-.  Landing  accomplished  with  significant  deviations procedures but safety was not affected. to  established A3.5.14.3.  U.  Failed landing  and  ground  operations.  Incorrect  or inappropriate  procedures.  Unable  to  maintain  position  orientation  or  ATC  assigned airspace. Unsafe control inputs jeopardized safety. to  monitor A3.5.15.  Area D-11:  After Landing. A3.5.15.1.  Q.  Appropriate  after  landing  checks  and  aircraft  taxi  procedures  were accomplished. A3.5.15.2.  Q-.  Significant  deviations  or  omissions  from  established  procedures  but safety and mission effectiveness were not affected. A3.5.15.3.  U.  Checks  were  not  accomplished  in  timely  manner.  Errors  of  omission committed without correction. A3.5.16.  Area D-12:  Systems Knowledge. A3.5.16.1.  Q.  Thorough  knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems,  limitations,  and performance characteristics. A3.5.16.2.  Q-.  Knowledge  of  SUAS  aircraft  systems,  limitation,  and  performance characteristics  sufficient  to  perform  the  mission  safely.  Deficiencies  either  in  depth  of knowledge or comprehension. A3.5.16.3.  U. Unfamiliar with systems operation. Unable to recall details, ops limits, or operational processes. A3.5.17.  Area D-13:  NAS Rules and Procedures.   32  AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A3.5.17.1.  Q.  Complied  with  NAS  rules/requirements  and  airspeed  restrictions  or potential traffic conflicts within NAS. A3.5.17.2.  Q-. Same as above but minor deviations detracted from safe accomplishment of the mission. A3.5.17.3.  U.  Unfamiliar  with  NAS  rules  and  procedures.  Unaware  of  potential  traffic conflicts. Did not use appropriate risk mitigating tools. A3.6.  :  Instructor.  This section is used for INSTR checks to evaluate & grade an individuals’ general ability to act in an instructor capacity, as opposed to performing qualification items as in Sections C or D.  NOTE:  For qualified instructors undergoing a recurring evaluation, the QUAL and INSTR evaluations are normally combined for efficiency. A3.6.1.  Area E-1:  Instructional Ability. A3.6.1.1.  Q.  Demonstrated  ability  to  communicate  effectively.  Provided  appropriate corrective guidance when necessary. A3.6.1.2.  Q-.  Instruction  was  essentially  correct  with  some  deviations  or  omissions. Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions. A3.6.1.3.  U.  Inability  to  effectively  communicate  with  the  student.  Did  not  provide corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems. A3.6.2.  Area E-2:  Briefing/Debriefing. A3.6.2.1.  Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student’s present  level  of  training  and  defined  mission  events  to  be  performed.  Excellent  ability during  critique  to  reconstruct  the  flight,  offer  mission  analysis,  and  provide  corrective guidance  where  appropriate.  Completed  all  training  documents  in  accordance  with prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to standard. Briefed the student’s requirements for the next mission. A3.6.2.2.  Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents that did not affect student progress. A3.6.2.3.  U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student’s training folder  or  past  performance.  Failed  to  adequately  critique  student  or  provide  complete mission  analysis.  Training  syllabi  grade  did  not  reflect  actual  performance  of  student. Comments  in  training  folder  were  incomplete.  Strengths  and  weaknesses  were  not identified.  Overlooked  or  omitted  major  discrepancies.  Incomplete  briefing  of  student’s training requirements/objectives for mission. A3.6.3.  Area E-3:  Demonstration and Performance. A3.6.3.1.  Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-flight.  Demonstrated thorough knowledge of SUAS aircraft systems, procedures, and all applicable publications and regulations. A3.6.3.2.  Q-.  Minor  discrepancies  in  the  above  criteria  that  did  not  affect  safety  or adversely affect student performance. A3.6.3.3.  U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient knowledge about SUAS aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper source material. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015   33  A3.6.4.  Area E-4:  Conduct of the Mission. A3.6.4.1.  Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. A3.6.4.2.  Q-.  Untimely  or inappropriate  decisions  degraded  or  prevented accomplishment  of a portion of the mission. Resources were not  effectively used to  the extent specific mission objectives were not achieved. A3.6.4.3.  U.  Mission  execution  prevented  accomplishment  of  a  major  portion  of  the mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly. A3.7.  :  Mission (If applicable). This section is used for MSN checks (not common in AFMC) to  evaluate  &  grade  an  individuals’  general  ability  to  perform  a  particular  type  of  mission,  as opposed to performing qualification items as in Sections C or D. A3.7.1.  Area F-1:  Knowledge. A3.7.1.1.  Q.  Fully  knowledgeable  in  mission  requirements,  test  plan  directives,  SUAS limitations,  and  partial  flight  manual.  Effectively  coordinated  with  other  crew  members and project personnel. A3.7.1.2.  Q-.  Demonstrated  a  limited  knowledge  of  mission  requirements,  test  plan directives, SUAS limitations, or the partial flight manual which degraded a portion of the mission objective or CRM. A3.7.1.3.  U.  Inadequate  knowledge  of  mission  requirements,  test  plan  directive,  SUAS limitations, and partial flight manual. Did not effectively use resources. Directly affected successful mission accomplishment. A3.7.2.  Area F-2:  Planning. A3.7.2.1.  Q.  Considered  all  factors  necessary  for  mission  accomplishment  to  include weather, mission profile, airspace utilization/restrictions, and proper documentation. A3.7.2.2.  Q-. Limited consideration of all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. However, did not affect mission objective directly, but may have contributed toward lack of effective CRM. A3.7.2.3.  U. Did not consider all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. Lack of consideration contributed negatively towards successful mission completion. A3.7.3.  Area F-3:  Execution. A3.7.3.1.  Q. Accomplished major mission objectives in a timely and skillful manner. A3.7.3.2.  Q-.  Errors  or  omission  were  made  which  did  not  render  mission  ineffective, but indicated a definite need for additional training. A3.7.3.3.  U. Improper execution of duties negatively impacted mission accomplishment. A3.7.4.  Area F-4:  Security. A3.7.4.1.  Q.  Adequate  security  of  mission  information  and  material  was  maintained throughout preflight, flight, and post flight. AFI11-5FTV2  27 AUGUST 2015 A3.7.4.2.  U.  Inadequate  security  procedures  were  carried  out  which  would  lead  to  the compromise of mission information and/or material.   34   