 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-133 29 MARCH 2016 Intelligence INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AF/A2DA   Certified by: AF/A2D  (Brig Gen Thomas W. Geary) Pages: 23   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  (AF)  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  14-1,  Intelligence, Surveillance,  and  Reconnaissance  (ISR)  Planning,  Resources  and  Operations  and  is  consistent with  guidance  within  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Directive  (DoDD)  5105.21,  Defense Intelligence  Agency  (DIA),  Defense  Intelligence  Analysis  Program  (DIAP)  Management Guidance,  Intelligence  Community  Directive  (ICD)  191,  Duty  to  Warn,  ICD  203,  Analytic Standards,  ICD  205,  Analytic  Outreach,  ICD  206,  Sourcing  Requirements  for  Disseminated Analytic Products, ICD 208, Write for Maximum Utility, ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence Community (IC), DNI Memo, Integrating the Analytic  Enterprise;  National  Intelligence  Analysis  Board  Vision  Statement  and  Integrating Priorities, DNI Memo, Principles of Transparency for the Intelligence Community, January 15, 2015, Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, Joint Publication (JP) 2-0, Joint Intelligence, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-108, Management of GDIP Resources, AFI 14-111,  Intelligence  Support  to  the  Acquisition  Life-cycle,  AFI  14-128,  Air  Force  Service Cryptologic  Component  (AF  SCC),  AFI  14-132,  Geospatial-Intelligence  (GEOINT),  AFI  14-202V2,  Intelligence  Standardization/Evaluation  Program,  and  AFI  90-201,  The  Air  Force Inspection  System.    It  provides  guidance  and  procedures  on  intelligence  analysis  capabilities throughout the AF.  This publication applies to Regular Component, Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air National Guard (ANG), and Department of the AF Civilians, except where noted otherwise.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and disposed  of  IAW  AF  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  AF  Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Refer recommended changes and questions about  2 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but  all  direct  supplements  are  routed  to  the  OPR  of  this  publication  for  coordination  prior  to certification and approval.  Major Commands (MAJCOM) and Field Operating Agencies (FOA) need to provide a copy to the OPR upon publication.  IAW AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management,  the  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.   AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 3 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  General. 1.1.1.  Analysis is a core competency of ISR professionals, one that “analyst airmen” perform to  enable  decision  advantage.    An  “analyst  airman”  is  an  AF  ISR  professional  skilled  and qualified in tradecraft to perform the core competency of intelligence analysis across one or more AF warfighting domains of air, space, and cyberspace.  Analysis is fundamental to all AF ISR activities, from ISR planning and mission execution to national mission integration and  force  modernization.    AF  intelligence  analysis  provides  unique,  complementary,  and fully  integrated  capabilities  to  Intelligence  Community  (IC)  and  DoD  analysis  and production efforts, including the Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP). 1.1.2.  This  AFI  codifies  how  the  Air  Force  conducts  and  presents  analysis  capabilities  in support  of  Global  Integrated  ISR  and  other  service  core  functions.    It  establishes  the standards for AF intelligence analysis and delineates the associated roles and responsibilities of  AF  ISR  Enterprise  organizations.    Further,  it  articulates  the  mission  and  commitment  of AF intelligence analysts to adhere and aspire to the highest standards of rigor and integrity in analytic tradecraft, all in keeping with  AF core values.  The tenets  and standards described herein  serve as a  guideline and goal  for analysts  and managers throughout  the enterprise to strive for excellence in their analytic practices, products, and services. 1.2.  Air Force Intelligence Analysis. 1.2.1.  Intelligence  analysis  is  a  cognitive  capability—both  art  and  science—applying  tools, judgements,  processes,  and  tradecraft  to  data  and  information  to  create  and  deliver  new intelligence,  insights,  and  knowledge,  with  the  goal  of  providing  decision  advantage  to commanders,  decision  makers,  and  intelligence  customers.    The  AF  views  analysis  as  a significant capability that extends across all AF ISR Enterprise activities in support of the full range  of  military  operations  and  assigned  national  security  missions.    AF  intelligence analysis  draws  its  tenets,  standards,  and  common  activities  from  the  knowledge,  skills,  and tradecraft learned from decades of operational experience.  Further, AF intelligence analysis gleans considerable insight from  IC guidance and joint doctrine IAW Joint Publication 2-0, Joint Intelligence (JP 2-0), ensuring that AF Intelligence outputs uphold the highest standards and  demonstrating  AF  ISR  integration  with  the  IC  and  joint  warfighting.    AF  analysis includes  associated  intelligence  production;  further  reference  to  analysis  in  this  publication includes both analysis and production responsibilities. 1.2.2.  AF intelligence analysis is conducted by airmen, trained in the intelligence discipline of analysis, whether officer, enlisted, or civilian.  An “analyst airman” performs one or more types of analysis, including single-source, multi-source, fusion, and all-source analysis.  The “analyst airman” is bound by the professional standards for analysis developed by the IC, and supplemented by AF standards and mission qualifications of the assigned ISR unit. 1.2.3.  AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise.    The  AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise  is  the global community of “analyst airmen,” along with AF ISR organizations, which employ the core  competency  of  intelligence  analysis.    The  Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise  falls  within  4 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 the larger AF ISR Enterprise, representing the core competency of analysis.  At the heart of the AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise is the cadre of “analyst airmen” who are trained and qualified  in  analysis  fundamentals  comprised  of  specific  skills,  tenets,  tradecraft  standards, and activities according  to  mission requirements.  The enterprise is  a Total  Force construct extending  from  squadron  to  headquarters  level  and  from  tactical  to  strategic  focus.    The enterprise  is  unified  in  policy,  authorities,  tenets,  and  strategy,  with  mutually  supporting capabilities,  architecture,  and  tools  to  enable  AF,  joint,  and  IC  decision  advantage  for  the nation.    Figure  1.1  depicts  an  overview  of  how  the  AF  ISR  Analysis  Enterprise,  ISR Analysis, and Analysis Fundamentals fit within the larger AF ISR Enterprise. Figure 1.1.  AF Intelligence Analysis Overview.  1.2.4.  Within  the  enterprise,  “analyst  airmen”  employ  fundamental  tenets,  standards,  and activities to perform analysis across a broad continuum for mission accomplishment.  On one end  of  the  analysis  continuum  is  fusion  analysis,  which  entails  quickly  melding  new information  with  baseline  knowledge  to  meet  specific  operational  needs  and  is  usually derived from a single-source.  On the other end of the continuum is comprehensive all-source analysis,  with  less  emphasis  on  rapidity,  and  greater  emphasis  on  analytic  depth,  trends, technical,  and  other  subject-matter  expertise  (refer  to  Figure  1.2).    Different  organizations within the AF Intelligence Analysis Enterprise execute analysis across this continuum.  For example,  AF  ISR  organizations  at  and  below  the  Numbered  AF  (NAF)  and  AF  Forces (AFFOR)  levels  conduct  mostly  fusion  analysis,  but  will  also  find  themselves  engaged  in  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 5 comprehensive,  trend  analysis  based  on  warfighter  requirements.    Conversely,  MAJCOM-level ISR entities and above tend more toward all-source analysis, but also will conduct time-sensitive analysis as customer requirements dictate.  The National Air and Space Intelligence Center  (NASIC),  in  addition  to  its  longer-term  multi-  and  all-source  analysis  production efforts,  also  has  time-sensitive  mission  responsibilities.    Acquisition  Intelligence  analysts conduct  long-term,  comprehensive  analysis,  with  emphasis  on  technical  and  subject-matter expertise. 1.2.5.  Intelligence Analysis Fundamentals.  AF Intelligence Analysis Fundamentals contain three  broad  features:    tenets,  standards,  and  activities.    These  features  apply  to  all  ISR Airmen,  and  are  the  foundation  upon  which  deep  analytic  skills,  knowledge,  and  tradecraft are built. 1.2.5.1.  The  five  intelligence  analysis  activities  of  discovery,  assessment,  explanation, anticipation,  and  delivery  operate  in  parallel  with  AF  ISR  Planning  and  Direction, Collection,  Processing  and  Exploitation,  Analysis  and  Production,  and  Dissemination (PCPAD)  processes.    Figure  1.2,  the  AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Continuum,  depicts  this relationship.    “Analyst  airmen”  will  be  trained  to  conduct  each  of  the  five  analysis activities IAW with unit mission requirements. 1.2.5.1.1.  Discovery  is  the  ability  to  research,  select,  manipulate,  and  correlate  data from multiple sources in order to identify information relevant to ongoing operations and  requirements.    Discovery  is  about  researching,  better  organizing,  and  using  the data  we  already  possess;  it  is  also  about  finding  previously  hidden  patterns  and anomalies. 1.2.5.1.2.  Assessment  is  the  ability  to  provide  focused  examination  of  data  and information about an object or an event, to classify and categorize it, and to assess its reliability  and  credibility,  in  order  to  create  estimates  of  capabilities  and  impacts.  Assessment is how intelligence determines what our consumers should be concerned with. 1.2.5.1.3.  Explanation  is  the  ability  to  examine  events  and  derive  knowledge  and insight  from  the  interrelated  data  in  order  to  create  descriptions  and  propose significance in greater context.  Explanation is how intelligence provides consumers’ narrative stories, relates events to broader situations, and identifies the core of “what is going on.” 1.2.5.1.4.  Anticipation  is  the  ability  to  warn  and  describe  future  states  of  the environment  based  on  the  manipulation  and  synthesis  of  past  and  present  data.  Anticipation  includes  near-term  warning  and  longer-term  forecasting  to  alert  and prepare decision makers to events relevant to responsibilities. 1.2.5.1.5.  Delivery, often referred to as production and/or dissemination, is the ability to  develop,  tailor,  and  present  intelligence  products  and  services  according  to customer  requirements  and  preferences.    Delivery  is  about  classic  intelligence products—from  tactical  reports  to  in-depth  intelligence  estimates—and  a  myriad  of intelligence  services,  ranging  from  interactive  displays  and  operational  pictures,  to multimedia  crew intelligence assessments, enabling real-time analyst response to requests for information. tablet-embedded,  dynamic threat  briefings  and  6 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 Figure 1.2.  AF Intelligence Analysis Continuum.   1.2.5.2.  Analytic Tenets  and Standards.  Detailed in  Chapter  3, the  analytic tenets  and standards provide the common lexicon for “analyst airmen” to conduct analysis activities anywhere within the AF Analysis Enterprise and across the analysis continuum. 1.3.  Forums,  Committees,  and Working  Groups.  The Analysis Capabilities Working Group (ACWG)  serves  as  a  cross-MAJCOM  entity  of  AF  ISR  analysis  stakeholders  responsible  for supporting  the  development  and  advancement  of  air,  space,  and  cyberspace  intelligence analytical  capabilities  within  the  AF  ISR  Enterprise  and  across  the  full  range  of  military operations.  The ACWG provides a means to coordinate, assess, and synchronize AF intelligence analysis policies, tradecraft, education, training, and tools, as well as to recommend materiel and non-materiel  solutions  through  established  AF  processes  and  offices.    The  Air  Combat Command (ACC) Division Chief for Intelligence, Targeting & Collection (ACC/A2A) will chair the  ACWG.    Chief  of  the  AF  Analysis  Division  (AF/A2DA)  will  be  the  Analysis  Capabilities Advocate to the ACWG.  Working group membership will be defined by an ACWG Charter, but at  a  minimum  will  consist  of  a  Global  Integrated  ISR  (GIISR)  Core  Function  Team representative,  intelligence  analysis  representatives  and  stakeholders  from  all  MAJCOMs,  and NASIC.  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 7 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and Reconnaissance  (AF/A2).  AF/A2  is  responsible  for  the  overall  supervision  of  all  matters  that pertain  to  AF  ISR  capabilities  and  bears  overall  responsibility  for  AF  intelligence  analysis  and production.  Assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in providing operationally ready forces in response  to  the  needs  of  the  Combatant  Commanders  through  measured  analysis,  assessment, and actionable decisions based on current and predicted readiness indicators. 2.2.  Director  of  ISR  Strategy,  Plans,  Policy,  and  Force  Development  (AF/A2D).  AF/A2D will oversee policy, guidance, planning, and advocacy of AF ISR analysis and associated force management  and  readiness  responsibilities.   In  this  capacity,  AF/A2D,  or  designated representative, will serve as the AF Intelligence Ombuds IAW ICD 203, and respond to concerns raised by intelligence analysts about adherence to AF analysis tenets, standards, and production guidelines. 2.3.  Chief of the Air Force Analysis Division (AF/A2DA).  AF/A2DA is the AF/A2 OPR for analysis.  AF/A2DA will: 2.3.1.  Establish  and  oversee  AF  analysis  policy,  guidance,  strategic  planning,  advocacy, evaluation, and oversight for the AF ISR Enterprise. 2.3.2.  Closely  coordinate  with  ACC,  the  lead  MAJCOM  for  intelligence  analysis,  and  the ACWG,  to  improve  AF  ISR  analysis  and  promote  the  exchange  of  analysis  doctrine, concepts, best practices, materials, and systems. 2.3.3.  Serve as AF ISR lead representative and advocate to the IC, DoD, Allies, and industry for  intelligence  analysis-specific  policy,  requirements,  capabilities,  tradecraft  standards, collaboration, and tools. 2.3.4.  Translate national, defense, and IC intelligence directives and policy to AF policy and guidance. 2.3.5.  Serve as AF Intelligence Analysis functional area manager (FAM) and subject-matter expert (SME) in policy formulation with the Secretary of the AF Inspector General.  Ensure consistency with AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System (AFIS).  Build and maintain a Management  Internal  Control  Toolset  Self-Assessment  Communicator  for  this  AFI  and submit inspection requirements for inclusion in AFI 90-201, Attachment 3. 2.3.6.  Advocate  and  prioritize  AF  intelligence  analysis  requirements  via  the  AF  Strategic Planning Process and within IC and DoD planning processes. 2.3.7.  Advocate for AF intelligence analysis capabilities and programming initiatives under the Military Intelligence Program and the National Intelligence Program (NIP) with DIA, the AF  ISR  Resources  Directorate  (AF/A2R),  and  the  Global  Integrated  ISR  (GIISR)  Core Function Lead. 2.3.8.  Represent AF intelligence analysis interests, requirements, and capabilities within the broader scope of the DIAP in partnership with NASIC.  8 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 2.3.9.  Participate  in  and  represent  AF  analytic  interests  in  national  intelligence  analysis governance forums, such as the Military Intelligence Board (MIB), the National Intelligence Analysis  Board,  and  the  Defense  Analysis  Intelligence  Enterprise  All-Source  Analysis Council. 2.3.10.  Develop, and competencies and tradecraft standards. coordinate, establish enterprise-level intelligence analysis 2.3.11.  Establish  and  coordinate  AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise  assessment  and reporting requirements IAW ICD 191, 203, 205, 206, 208, and 501; and AFI 90-201.  Ensure Air  Force  Analytic  Enterprise  compliance  with  DNI  Principles  of  Transparency  for  the Intelligence  Community  and  DNI  Analytic  Integration  Priorities.    Consolidate  and  report enterprise compliance and effectiveness to applicable IC and DoD entities. intelligence  analysis 2.3.12.  Develop  AF training,  education,  standardization,  and certification  policy  and  guidance  in  coordination  with  AF  ISR  Force  Management  and Readiness  Division  (AF/A2DF),  NASIC,  ACC,  Air  Education  and  Training  Command (AETC),  and  other  MAJCOMs,  as  appropriate,  to  facilitate  overall  AF  ISR  analysis  force management. 2.3.13.  Advocate  for  intelligence  analysis  systems,  tools,  and  technologies  in  coordination with  AF/A2’s  Chief    Enterprise  Information  Office,  AF  ISR  Innovations  Directorate (AF/A2I), and applicable MAJCOMs.  Synchronize technology initiatives with IC and DoD efforts, including the IC Information Technology Enterprise initiative. 2.3.14.  Serve as a voting member of the ACWG.  Function as the OPR for AF intelligence analysis policy issues originating from and within the ACWG. 2.3.15.  Publish and update an annual Program of Analysis (POA) IAW Director of National Intelligence (DNI) guidance. 2.3.16.  Administer the AF Quality of Analysis Program (QofA) for the AF ISR Enterprise. 2.3.17.  Serve  as  NASIC  intelligence  analysis  advocate  within  the  IC  and  DoD.    Perform management headquarters responsibilities for NASIC on intelligence analysis issues. 2.3.18.  Serve  as  AF  ISR  lead  for  integrating  Air  Reserve  Component  (AFR  and  ANG) intelligence analysis capabilities. 2.3.19.  Advocate for AF  ISR Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program  (TARP) capabilities and programming initiatives within the AF corporate process and with the DoD and IC, while ensuring TARP products, services, and processes meet AF, DoD, and IC analytic directives and standards. 2.3.20.  Adjudicate analysis and production disputes and represent the AF in national forums with regard to disputes between customers and AF intelligence producers. 2.4.  Chief, ISR Force Management and Readiness Division (AF/A2DF).  The division's ISR FAMs  will  provide  policy,  guidance,  oversight,  and  management  for  AF  ISR  training  and education.  AF/A2DF will: 2.4.1.  Provide  policy  and  guidance  for  AF  ISR  analytic  training  and  education  in  close coordination with AF/A2DA, ACC, other MAJCOMs, AETC, and NASIC, as appropriate.  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 9 2.4.2.  Develop  the  means  to  identify  and  track  intelligence  fusion,  multi-intelligence,  and all-source analysis assignments of AF personnel. 2.5.  Director  of  ISR  Resources  (AF/A2R).  AF/A2R will orchestrate and provide insight into intelligence  analysis  funding  across  multiple  ISR  programming  elements  in  coordination  with AF/A2DA, and applicable program management offices as necessary. 2.6.  Commander,  National  Air  and  Space  Intelligence  Center  (NASIC/CC).  As the center of analytical excellence for foreign air, space, and cyber threats to US air and space operations, NASIC will: 2.6.1.  Broadly collaborate across the AF, DoD, and IC, as well as with allies, where feasible, to  provide  fusion  analysis  and  all-source  analysis  to  meet  key  operational,  policy,  and acquisition requirements (T-3). 2.6.2.  Align  analysis  production  priorities  with  IC,  DoD,  and  AF  guidance,  including  the National  Intelligence  Priorities  Framework,  DNI  Unifying  Intelligence  Strategies,  DIA Strategy,  DIAP,  the  AF  POA,  multi-program  prioritized  production  requirements,  and internal Center resourcing guidelines (T-3). 2.6.3.  Ensure  internal  intelligence  analysis  processes,  procedures,  resource  allocation,  and level of effort are in concert with NIP guidance, including the General Defense Intelligence Program  (GDIP),  National  Geospatial  Intelligence  Program  (NGP),   Consolidated Cryptologic Program (CCP), and appropriate AF instructions/guidance (T-3). 2.6.4.  Provide  reach  back  analysis  capabilities  for  established  AF  ISR  analysis  mission production areas of responsibility (T-3). 2.6.5.  Provide  expertise  in  intelligence  analysis  tradecraft  standards,  competencies,  and tactics, techniques, and procedures to support AF/A2’s responsibilities in overseeing AF ISR analysis (T-3). 2.6.6.  Coordinate  closely  with  25  AF  and  its  wings  to  enable  effective  division  of intelligence  analysis  responsibilities  and  comprehensive  coverage  of  AF  production requirements for improved analysis unity of effort (T-3). 2.6.7.  Participate and serve as a voting member in the ACWG (T-3). 2.6.8.  Ensure analysis and production is provided IAW DoD, DIA, and AF policy, guidance, and timelines to support intelligence-dependent (including Intelligence Mission Data (IMD)) acquisition programs (T-2). 2.6.9.  Identify  funding  gaps  for  meeting  customer  intelligence  analysis  and  production requirements  IAW  Chairman,  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  Instruction  (CJCSI)  3170,  DIA’s  DIAP Management  Guidance,  AFI  63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management,  AFI  10-601,  Operational  Capability  Requirements  Development,  AFI  14-111,  and  AFI  14-108, Management of GDIP Resources (T-2). 2.6.10.  Provide  single-source  analysis,  research,  and  development  of  analytic  tools,  as directed (T-3). 2.6.11.  Develop  and  implement  a  means  to  measure  and  assess  compliance  with  AF Intelligence  analysis  tradecraft  standards  and  reporting  requirements  IAW  ICD  191,  203, 205, 206, 208, 501; DNI Principles of Transparency for the Intelligence Community and DNI  10 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 Integrating  the  Analytic  Enterprise;  National  Intelligence  Analysis  Board  Vision  Statement and Integrating Priorities, and this AFI.  Report evaluation results annually to AF/A2DA for enterprise consolidation and subsequent reporting to applicable IC and DoD entities (T-2). 2.6.12.  Designate  an  individual  (Ombuds)  or  office  responsible  for  responding  to  concerns raised  by  NASIC  intelligence  analysts  about  adherence  to  AF  analytic  tenets  and  standards (T-2). 2.7.  MAJCOM Directors of Intelligence (A2).  In this capacity, MAJCOM/A2s will: 2.7.1.  Ensure  strategic  vision,  planning,  programming,  budgeting  guidance,  and  overall direction  for  MAJCOM  ISR  analysis  activities,  in  compliance  with  AF,  DoD,  and  IC guidance. 2.7.2.  Identify  funding  gaps  for  meeting  end-user  analysis  requirements  or  as  identified  in the  AF  POA.    Formulate  AF  ISR  analysis  requirements  IAW  AF  corporate  and  Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) processes. 2.7.3.  Identify,  consolidate,  prioritize,  and  develop  resourcing  and  programmatic  initiatives for  MAJCOM-specific  ISR    analysis  capabilities,  tools,  and  technologies  and  develop theater/MAJCOM-specific  analytic  training.    Provide  prioritized  intelligence  analysis initiatives  through  the  Air  Force  corporate  process  and  in  coordination  with  ACC/A2  and AF/A2. 2.7.4.  Incorporate  analysis  requirements,  as  required,  into  MAJCOM  supplements  to appropriate  AFIs  for  ISR  standardization,  evaluation,  and  inspection  programs  to  ensure mission readiness and individual qualifications IAW analysis standards identified in this AFI. 2.7.5.  Develop  and  implement  a  means  to  measure  and  assess  ISR  analysis  tradecraft standards across the MAJCOM IAW ICD 191, 203, 205, 206, 208, and 501, DNI Principles of Transparency, AFI 90-201 and this AFI.  Report evaluation results annually to AF/A2DA for  enterprise  consolidation  and  subsequent  reporting  to  applicable  IC  and  DoD  entities.  IAW  AFI  90-201,  if  MAJCOMs  issue  a  supplement  to  this  AFI,  they  will  ensure  accurate assessment of ISR analysis tradecraft standards inherent to their subordinate unit missions are covered through existing Self-Assessment Communicators (SACs) or by issuing a new SAC.  2.7.6.  Produce  intelligence  and  analytic  products,  applications,  and  services  in  response  to validated mission requirements and/or as directed by the AF POA. 2.7.7.  Participate in the ACWG. 2.7.8.  Establish  policy  and  guidance  for  subordinate  NAFs,  AFFORs,  ISR  Divisions,  and other ISR entities to ensure all ISR analysis capabilities, training, standardization/evaluation, and  assessment  requirements  are  met.    Wherever  possible,  this  should  be  accomplished through existing policy and guidance (e.g., AFI 13-1AOC,Vols 1-3).  MAJCOMs may create supplements or instructions to meet this requirement. 2.7.9.  Ensure  analysis  products  and  services  are  provided  according  to  DoD,  DIA,  and  AF policy,  guidance,  and  timelines  to  support  Intelligence  Mission  Data  (IMD)-dependent programs.  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 11 2.7.10.  Designate  an  individual  (Ombuds)  or  office  responsible  for  responding  to  concerns raised  by  MAJCOM  intelligence  analysts  about  adherence  to  AF  analytic  tenets  and standards. 2.8.  Commander,  Air  Combat  Command  (ACC/CC).  ACC/CC  serves  as  the  GIISR  Core Function  Lead  Integrator  and  the  lead  MAJCOM  for  ISR  forces  and  capabilities,  allowing  for consistent presentation of forces to national decision makers, the IC, and DoD mission partners. 2.9.  ACC Director of Intelligence (ACC/A2).  As the lead MAJCOM for intelligence analysis, ACC/A2 will: 2.9.1.  Coordinate  closely  with  AF/A2D  to  ensure  AF  policy  and  guidance  is  sufficient  to enable AF intelligence analysis and promote the exchange of analysis doctrine, concepts, best practices, materials, and systems across the AF ISR Analysis Enterprise. 2.9.2.  Lead the ACWG. 2.10.  Commander, Air Education and Training Command (AETC/CC).  AETC/CC will: 2.10.1.  Develop and conduct initial and advanced formal training for analytic skills to meet AF ISR Analysis Enterprise training, evaluation, and certification requirements. 2.10.2.  Ensure  adequate  resourcing  and  funding  for  sustainment  of  AETC-sponsored  ISR  analysis training courses, excluding  temporary duty-to-school costs. 2.10.3.  Interface with ACC and the ACWG on ISR analysis training matters. 2.10.4.  Participate as a voting member in the ACWG. 2.11.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Acquisition  (SAF/AQ).  As  the  Service Acquisition Executive (SAE), SAF/AQ will: 2.11.1.  Conduct  development,  test,  evaluation,  and  acquisition  of  AF  intelligence  analysis tools, technologies, systems, and architectures. 2.11.2.  Coordinate  with  AF/A2D  to  ensure  AF  policy  and  guidance  is  sufficient  to  enable AF intelligence analytic acquisition and sustainment, while remaining consistent with policy, concepts, best practices, materials, and systems across the Integrated Life Cycle Management process.  2.11.3.  Perform AF intelligence analysis systems acquisition and funding support IAW The Defense  Acquisition  System,  DoDI  5000.02,  Operation  of  the  Defense  Acquisition  System, DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) in DoD Acquisition, DIAD 5000-200,  Intelligence  Threat  Support  for  Major  Defense  Acquisition  Programs,  DIAI 5000.002, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs, AFI 14-111, JCIDs Manual, Manual for the Operation of JCIDs , AFI 10-601, and AFI 63-101/20-101. 2.12.  Commander,  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC/CC).  As the lead MAJCOM for ISR support to Acquisition Program Offices, AFMC will:  2.12.1.  Conduct  research  and  other  acquisition  support  for  AF  intelligence  analysis  tools, technologies, systems, and architectures. 2.12.2.  Interface  with  ACC  and  the  ACWG  on  AF  intelligence  analysis  technology.  Participate as a voting member in the ACWG.   12 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 2.12.3.  Collaborate  with  NASIC  to  leverage  NIP-related  research  and  development activities. 2.12.4.  Coordinate with AF/A2D to ensure AF policy and guidance are sufficient to enable AF  acquisition and sustainment of intelligence analytic capabilities, while remaining consistent with policy, concepts, best practices, materials, and systems across the Integrated Life Cycle Management process. 2.12.5.  Perform AF intelligence support to acquisition and identify and characterize derived intelligence  requirements  to  minimize  risk  to  programs  IAW  The  Defense  Acquisition System,  DoDI  5000.02,  Operation  of  the  Defense  Acquisition  System  ,  DoDD  5250.01, Management of IMD in DoD Acquisition, DIAD 5000-200, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs, DIAI 5000.002, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense  Acquisition  Programs,  AFI  14-111,  Intelligence  Support  to  the  Acquisition  Life-cycle,  JCIDs  Manual,  Manual  for  the  Operation  of  JCIDs,  AFI  14-132,  AFI  10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, and AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management.  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 13 Chapter 3 GENERAL GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES 3.1.  AF Intelligence Analysis Tenets.  AF intelligence analysis tenets derive from and support IC,  joint  intelligence,  and  broader  ISR  principles,  while  simultaneously  emphasizing  analysis attributes of particular interest and priority within the AF.  These are the overarching principles held  to  be  true  and  in  common  by  AF  ISR  Professionals.    Collectively,  these  tenets  cover  the most important beliefs about AF intelligence analysis.  While effort should be taken to apply all of these tenets, situations may dictate not all of them being used. 3.1.1.  Objectivity:   Analysis  should be based upon facts  to  the  greatest extent possible and always  be  clear  and  truthful  about  what  is  known  versus  what  is  judged.    It  should  not  be distorted  by  emotion  nor  personal  or  organizational  bias  and  shall  be  independent  of command  or  political  considerations.    Further,  it  should  clearly  distinguish  between underlying  intelligence,  assumptions,  and  judgments.    Analysts  should  address  alternative perspectives and contrary information as well as avoid being unduly constrained by previous judgments. 3.1.2.  Integrity:  While closely linked to objectivity, integrity involves a broader focus on all activities, standards, and processes associated with  AF intelligence analysis.   Integrity  calls for  complete  honesty  and  reliability  in  analysis  along  with  firm  adherence  to  a  code  of professional  ethics  and  tradecraft  standards,  such  as  accuracy,  timeliness,  and  customer responsiveness.  Integrity includes explaining changes in previous analytic judgments as well as addressing significant differences in judgment between various U.S. analytic elements.  As stated  in  JP  2-0,  “Integrity  is  the  cardinal  element  in  analysis  and  the  foundation  on  which analysis credibility and trustworthiness is built.” 3.1.3.  Synthesis:    AF  intelligence  analysis  requires  analysts  to  use  all  available  sources  of information to maximize completeness.  Analysts should also identify information gaps, and where  they  exist,  they  should  coordinate  with  collectors  to  develop  access  and  collection strategies.  Synthesis  requires honed tradecraft skills,  including critical  thinking, alternative analysis,  and  the  ability  to  take  the  perspective  of  the  adversary.    Compatible,  service-oriented information technology architectures and tools are also key to facilitating synthesis. 3.1.4.  Collaboration:    Analysts  must  actively  solicit  opinions  and  assessments  from  other analysts  and  seek  to  share  ideas.    Data,  information,  and  intelligence  must  be  broadly accessed  and  shared.    Collaboration  should  take place  internally  within  the  AF  Intelligence Analysis  Enterprise,  across  the  IC,  and  externally  with  Allies,  academia,  and  other  entities outside the IC, where feasible.  Effective collaboration facilitates maximum synthesis. 3.1.5.  Anticipation:    Analysis  is  far  more  than  trend  assessment;  its  true  value  resides  in warning  and  forecasting  to  be  relevant  to  decision  making,  warfighting,  operations,  and acquisition.    Because  information  gaps  routinely  limit  our  ability  to  predict  with  complete accuracy,  it  is  incumbent  on  analysts  to  effectively  apply  tradecraft  standards  such  as alternative  analysis,  levels  of  confidence,  assumptions  vs.  judgments,  and  appropriate sourcing.    Intelligence  warning  and  forecasting  are  not  exact;  however,  analysts  should utilize the most recent data/information for all warning or forecast-related analysis.  14 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 3.1.6.  Requirements:    The  AF  intelligence  analysis  mission  is  motivated  by  continuous engagement with customers to comprehend dynamic needs.  Customer needs can be solicited from understanding their operations, from anticipating and listening to their questions, from responding  to  feedback,  and  addressing  documented  need  statements  and  derivative  data needs, which are all known as requirements.   AF intelligence analysis requires an  effective balance of operational familiarity, interpreted needs, and requirements through prioritization, collection management, and analytical judgment. 3.2.  AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Standards.  The  following  standards  comprise  the  measurable criteria by which analytic excellence and readiness are assessed within the AF.  They derive from and support ICD 203 tradecraft standards and other IC, joint intelligence, and GIISR guidance, while emphasizing analytic priority  attributes within the AF.  These established standards shall be used by the AF ISR Enterprise to conduct analysis operations and readiness (T-2).  3.2.1.  Timeliness.    AF  intelligence  analysis  must  be  timely  to  impact  planning,  mission objectives,  operations  and  to  otherwise  aid  in  commanders'  decisions.    Analysts  are responsible  for  engaging  with  customers  and  end-users  of  intelligence  to  understand  what they need and when they need it in order to deliver information and knowledge at the earliest time and place to enable customers to effectively make decisions and take action.  Timeliness is  about  ensuring  awareness,  creating  opportunities,  and  enabling  warfighting  decision advantage.   3.2.2.  Appropriate Sourcing.  Analysis cites all sources used, when feasible, and includes an objective assessment of the quality, credibility, and reliability of the underlying sources IAW ICD  206.    Sourcing  factors  to  consider  include  accuracy  and  completeness;  possible  denial and deception; age and continued currency of information; technical elements of collection; need for sanitized reporting; as well as source access, validation, motivation, possible bias, or expertise.    Source  summary  statements  are  strongly  encouraged  and  should  be  used  when products  and  services  need  to  identify  which  sources  are  most  important  to  major  analytic judgments, or when there are notable strengths or gaps in reporting.  3.2.3.  Accuracy.  Analysis will make the most accurate judgments and assessments possible, based on the intelligence available and in light of known information gaps.  Analysts should not  avoid  hard  judgments  in  order  to  minimize  the  risk  of  being  wrong.    Accuracy  can  be difficult to establish at the time of judgment and may be evaluated after time has passed.  A retrospective  analysis  of  the  accuracy  of  a  judgment  will  help  identify  biases  and  other potential tradecraft errors for correction in future analysis.  3.2.4.  Level  of Confidence.  To help  qualify  accuracy  and to  present  analysis in  a uniform and  consistent  manner  across the  degree  of confidence/certainty associated with  analytic judgments and conclusions to the best of their ability,  given  currently  available  intelligence  (T-2).    Analysts  should  reference  Table  3.1, derived from ICD 203 and JP 2-0, as a guide in expressing confidence/certainty. the  AF,  analysts  will indicate     AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 15 Table 3.1.  Confidence Levels in Analytic Judgments Level of Confidence  of from corroborated reliable Extremely High confidence Nearly Certain Highly  corroborated  evidence from proven sources Virtually no assumptions Very strong logical inferences Virtually  no  intelligence  gaps exist High confidence Highly Probable Well  corroborated  information from proven sources Minimal assumptions Strong logical inferences No significant intelligence gaps exist Moderate-to-high confidence Probable Majority information sources Few assumptions More inferences Minimal intelligence gaps Moderate confidence Roughly Even Odds Partially information from good sources Several assumptions Mix  of inferences Few intelligence gaps exist Low-to-moderate confidence Improbable Limited information Some assumptions More  weak inferences Some intelligence gaps exist strong  and  weak strong than  weak than strong corroborated corroborated 95-99% 80-95% 55-80% 45-55% 20-45% High Moderate Almost Certain Very Likely Likely Roughly Even Chance Low Unlikely  16 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 Very Unlikely Almost No Chance corroborated Low confidence Highly Improbable Minimal information Many assumptions Mostly weak logical inferences Significant intelligence  gaps exist Extremely Low confidence Remote Uncorroborated information Almost all assumptions Predominantly  weak inferences Glaring intelligence gaps exist logical 05-20% 01-05% 3.2.5.  Assumptions  vs.  Judgments.    Analysis  clearly  distinguishes  between  underlying intelligence,  analyst  assumptions,  and  analyst  judgments.    Assumptions  are  defined  as suppositions  or  premises  used  to  frame  or  support  an  argument;  they  affect  analytic interpretation of underlying intelligence information.  Judgments are defined as conclusions based  on  underlying  intelligence  information  and  assumptions.    AF  analytic  products  and services should explain the implications for judgments if assumptions prove to be incorrect.  Products  should  also,  as  appropriate,  identify  indicators  that,  if  detected,  could  alter  the judgment. 3.2.6.  Analysis of Alternatives.  Analysis will incorporate plausible alternative assessments, judgments,  or  hypotheses,  particularly  when  major  judgments  contend  with  significant uncertainties  (e.g.,  evidence  that  is  ambiguous,  inconsistent,  dated,  single-threaded, incomplete,  or  otherwise  inconclusive  or  unreliable),  complexity  (e.g.,  forecasting  future trends),  or  when  low  probability  events  could  produce  high  impact  results  (T-2).    In discussing  alternatives,  AF  analytic  products  and  services  should  address  factors  such  as associated  assumptions,  likelihood,  or  implications  related  to  AF,  customer,  and/or  U.S. interests.  Products and services should also identify indicators that, if detected, would affect the  likelihood  of  identified  alternatives.    In  order  to  facilitate  alternative  analysis  and whenever  possible,  analysis  should  be  vetted  through  at  least  one  other  intelligence professional to minimize individual analyst bias. 3.2.7.  Relevance.  Analysis  is  key to  decision  making, warfighting, and acquisition efforts.  Products  and  services  should  not  only  explain  analysis  associated  with  the  output,  but  also explain the implications for the AF, customer, U.S. and/or its Allies.  AF analytic products and  services  should  add  value  by  addressing  prospects,  context,  threats,  or  other  factors affecting U.S./Allied planning and operations.  Analysts should make every effort to ensure products and services fulfill the customer’s intent and request, while also ensuring products and services are available to others for use beyond the original intent. 3.2.8.  Logical  Argumentation.    Analysis  will  employ  coherent  and  logical  reasoning techniques, be supported by all key relevant information, and be internally consistent (T-2).  Analytic outputs will be concise  yet comprehensive (T-2).  Analysis will be organized with  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 17 clarity  of  meaning,  using  unambiguous  language,  with  the  main  analytic  message  up  front, and to place analytic assessments in context of pertinent trends (T-2). 3.2.9.  Utility.    AF  analytic  products  and  services  will  employ  written,  verbal,  hardcopy, softcopy,  graphical,  and  other  visual  formats,  or  a  combination  thereof  that  best  enables understandability by the customer (T-2).  Analysis will strive for dissemination at the lowest classification  and  widest  releasability  levels  without  jeopardizing  its  usefulness  to  the customer (T-2). 3.2.10.  Customer  Engagement.    Analysis  should  fully  address  customers’  requirements within the time constraints and in a manner most useful.  “Analyst airmen” will be responsive to  customer  feedback  (T-2).    While  challenging  to  evaluate,  this  tradecraft  standard  is foundational to AF intelligence analysis. 3.3.  Training, Education, Standardization/Evaluation. 3.3.1.  To ensure personnel conducting intelligence analysis activities attain and maintain the qualifications  and  currencies  needed  to  support  the  unit’s  mission  effectively,  AF/A2  and supplemental  instructions  will  incorporate  AF  ISR  analysis  in  the  Intelligence  Personnel Training Program  IAW applicable DoD and AF policy.  Training requirements will include AF intelligence analysis tenets and tradecraft standards (T-2).  Special consideration should be given to leveraging existing IC, DoD, and academic course offerings. 3.3.2.  To  validate  mission  readiness  and  the  effectiveness  of  “analyst  airmen”,  including documentation  of  individual  member  qualifications  and  capabilities  specific  to  the  duty position,  AF/A2  and  supplemental  instructions  will  incorporate  intelligence  analysis standards  into  Intelligence  Standardization/Evaluation/Inspection  processes  IAW  applicable DoD and AF policy. 3.3.3.  Education  is  a  powerful  tool  in  developing  SMEs  on  specific  countries,  regions, cultures,  weapons  systems,  or  analytical  problem  sets.    AF  analysts  are  encouraged  to leverage  educational  opportunities  ranging  from  individual  academic  courses  to  advanced academic  degrees,  to  the  extent  resources  and  tempo  of  operations  considerations  allow,  in support of priority AF intelligence analysis mission areas. 3.4.  Requirements  and  Production  Management.  AF  intelligence  analysis  addresses  wide-ranging requirements in support of AF, DoD, IC, and national missions and customers. 3.4.1.  For analysis requirements that fall under the DIAP, AF units will conduct intelligence analysis activities and missions according to DIAP responsibilities, procedures, and timelines (T-2). 3.4.2.  For intelligence support to acquisition and intelligence-dependent programs (including IMD),  units  will  ensure  intelligence  analysis  is  provided  IAW  DoDD  5000.01,  DoDI 5000.02,  DoDD  5250.01,  DIAD  5000-200,  DIAI  500.002,  JCIDs  Manual  12,  AFI  10-601, and AFI 14-111 guidance and timelines (T-2). 3.4.3.  AF  units  shall  prioritize  intelligence  analysis  IAW  the  AF  ISR  annual  POA,  which aligns  with  national-level  and  defense  analysis  priorities,  while  supporting  unique requirements within the AF (T-2). 3.4.4.  Units  shall  actively  seek  customer  feedback  to  verify  the  analysis  satisfies  customer needs and requirements (T-3).  18 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 3.4.5.  Units  shall  perform  analysis  and  meet  validated  requirements  IAW  standards identified in ICD 191, 203, 205, 206, 208, 501, and this AFI (T-2). 3.4.6.  AF  elements  shall  comply  with  GDIP,  NGP,  and  CCP  funding  guidance,  priorities, and  timelines  when  performing  respective  analysis  and  production,  and  IAW  AFI  14-108, AFI 14-128, and AFI 14-132. 3.5.  Challenges  to  AF  Tenets  and  Standards.  The  “analyst  airman”  is  responsible  for understanding  and  applying  AF  analysis  tenets  and  standards,  and  for  raising  concerns  when others attempt, or appear to attempt, to influence analysis outcomes.  Real or perceived problems of tradecraft, politicization, biased reporting, or lack of objectivity in intelligence analysis should be raised with the AF Ombuds through appropriate AF channels, through the individual analyst’s chain of command, or the ODNI Ombuds if internal procedures have been exhausted. ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance   AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 19 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References ACWG Charter, 13 February 2015 AF ISR 2023:  Delivering Decision Advantage, September 2013 AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFI 14-108, Management of GDIP Resources, 25 February 2014 AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-cycle, 16 June 2014 AFI 14-128, Air Force Service Cryptologic Component (AF SCC), 28 September 2010 AFI 14-132, Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT), 10 August 2012 AFI 14-202V1, Intelligence Training, 31 March 2015 AFI 14-202V2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 31 March 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 5 December 2015 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013 AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 21 April 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 28 January 2015 AFPD 14-1, ISR Planning, Resources and Operations, 2 April 2004 CJCSI 3170.01I, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDs), 23 January 2015 DIA Strategy 2012-2017 DIAP Management Guidance (Vol 1), August 2012 DIAP Management Guidance (Vol 2), Roles and Responsibilities, August 2012 DIAI 5000.002, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs, 1 Feb 2013 DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003 DoDD 5105.21, Defense Intelligence Agency, March 18, 2008 DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) in DoD Acquisition, January 22, 2013 DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, January 27, 2015 ICD 199, Duty to Warn, 21 July 2015 ICD 203, Analytic Standards, 02 January 2015 ICD 205, Analytic Outreach, 28 August 2013 ICD 206, Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, 22 January 2015  20 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 ICD 208, Write for Maximum Utility, 17 December 2008 ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence Community, 21 January 2009 DNI Integrating the Analytic Enterprise; National Intelligence Analysis Board Vision Statement and Integrating Priorities, October, 2015 DNI Principles of Transparency for the Intelligence Community, January 15, 2015 Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, December 29, 2009 JCIDs 12, Manual for the Operation of JCIDs, 12 February 2015 JP 2-0, Joint Intelligence, 22 October 2013 Manual for the Operation of JCIDs, February 2009 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  ACC—Air Combat Command ACC/A2A—Air  Combat  Command  (ACC)  Division  Chief  for  Intelligence,  Targeting  & Collection ACWG—Analysis Capabilities Working Group AETC—Air Education and Training Command AF—Air Force AF/A2—Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and Reconnaissance AF/A2D—Director of ISR Strategy, Plans, Policy, and Force Development AF/A2DA—Chief of the AF Analysis Division AF/A2DF—ISR Force Management and Readiness Division AF/A2R—Director of ISR Resources AFFOR—Air Force Forces AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Material Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 21 CCP—Consolidated Cryptologic Program CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction DART—Distributed Common Ground System Analysis and Reporting Team DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency DIAD—DIA Directive DIAI—DIA Instruction DIAP—Defense Intelligence Analysis Program DNI—Director of National Intelligence DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction FAM—Functional Area Manager FOA—Field Operating Agency GDIP—General Defense Intelligence Program GIISR—Global Integrated Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance IAW—In Accordance With IC—Intelligence Community ICD—Intelligence Community Directive IMD—Intelligence Mission Data ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System JP—Joint Publication MAJCOM—Major Command MAJCOM/A2—Major Command Director of Intelligence NAF—Numbered Air Force NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center NGP—National Geospatial Intelligence Program NIP—National Intelligence Program OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PCPAD—Planning  and    Direction,  Collection,  Processing  and  Exploitation,  Analysis  and Production and Dissemination POA—Program of Analysis RDS—Records Disposition Schedule  22 AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 SAC—Self-Assessment Communicator SME—Subject-Matter Expert TARP—Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program Terms AF  Intelligence  Analysis  Enterprise—The global community of “analyst airmen” and the AF ISR organizations that employ the core competency of intelligence analysis. All-Source  Analysis—Intelligence  analysis  that  employs  all  available  sources  of  data  and information to enable the creation of new intelligence and knowledge. Analytic  Tradecraft—Specific  knowledge,  skills,  and  techniques  that,  when  appropriately applied, enable intelligence analysis. Analyst Airman—An AF ISR professional who is skilled and certified in tradecraft to perform the core competency of intelligence analysis across the air, space, or cyberspace domains. Critical  Thinking—The intellectually  disciplined  process  of  actively  and  skillfully conceptualizing, applying, analyzing, synthesizing, and/or evaluating information gathered from, or  generated  through  observation,  experience,  reflection,  reasoning,  or  communication,  as  a guide to belief and action. Fusion  Analysis  (also  called  Time-Dominant  (TD)  Fusion)—Analysis  in  a  time-sensitive environment  in  close  proximity  to  the  point  of  collection  that  entails  quickly  melding  new information  with  baseline  knowledge  to  meet  a  specific  operational  need.    Emphasis  is  on  the process of managing information and on timeliness over completeness. Intelligence  Analysis—A  cognitive  activity–both  art  and  science–applying  tools,  processes, tradecraft,  methods,  and  judgments  to  data  and  information  to  create  and  deliver  new intelligence,  insights,  and  knowledge,  with  the  goal  of  providing  a  decision  advantage  to commanders and decision makers. Intelligence  Customer  (also  called  Intelligence  Consumer)—A  requestor  or  user  of intelligence, including an operational unit, an acquisition organization, a national policy maker, or an intelligence organization. Intelligence  Production—The  development, knowledge via products and/or services that address customer requirements. tailoring,  and  presentation  of intelligence Intelligence Requirement (also called Request for Information, Production Requirement or Request  for  Support)—A need for intelligence to fill a gap in knowledge or understanding of the environment, adversary capabilities, centers of gravity, or intentions. ISR Activity—A task undertaken by a member of the ISR community that is associated with the accomplishment  of  an  intelligence  mission.    An  ISR  Activity  could  result  in  one  or  more intelligence  outputs.    ISR  Activities  do  not  include  tasks  carried  out  by  ISR  personnel  that  are unrelated  to  a  specific  intelligence  mission,  such  as  security  force  augmentation,  honor  guard duty, professional military education, or physical training. ISR Output—The result of an ISR Activity.  An output is categorized as either an ISR product or an ISR service.  Single or multiple outputs may derive from one activity, or one output could  AFI14-133  29 MARCH 2016 23 be  derived  from  multiple  Activities.    All  outputs  relate  directly  or  indirectly  to  the accomplishment of an intelligence mission. ISR  Product—A  specific  type  of  output  from  an  ISR  activity  that  consists  of  tangible information  in  written,  visual,  and/or  verbal  form  that  is  intended  to  convey  information  of intelligence value (e.g., written assessment, threat map, and targeting materials) or facilitates the accomplishment  of  an  intelligence  mission  (e.g.,  ISR  program  element  code  build,  self-assessment checklist, or training folder). ISR  Service—A  type  of  output  from  an  ISR  Activity.    Assistance  provided  to  another  entity during  the  performance  of  an  ISR  mission:    (1)  the  actual  action  of  delivering  or  conveying intelligence  to  a  user  (e.g.,  presenting  a  briefing,  tipping  and  cuing,  collaboration,  or  threat modeling),  or  (2)  the  process  of  enabling  an  ISR  mission  (e.g.,  exercise  planning,  skill knowledge training, or security clearance indoctrination).  Some ISR Services result in additional ISR Products. Multi-Source Analysis (also called Multi—Int Analysis)—Intelligence analysis that makes use of  more  than  one  source  when  access  to  additional  potential  sources  is  limited  by  reasons  of timeliness, system access, location, or security levels. Ombuds  (also  called  the  ODNI  Analytic  Ombuds  or  AF  Analytic  Ombuds—Adherence to IC  Analytic  Standards  is  safeguarded  by  the  ODNI  Analytic  Ombuds,  who  addresses  concerns regarding  lack  of  objectivity,  bias,  politicization,  or  other  issues  in  Standards  application  in analytic products. Single-Source Analysis (also called Exploitation)—Intelligence analysis that employs a single source or expertise in a functional area to characterize events, people, or things.  Such analysis is limited to describing, rather than evaluating, the topic of a particular analysis due to restrictions inherent  in  single-source  intelligence  collection,  precluding  the  ability  to  provide  fully contextualized intelligence assessments.   