 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2TH-1H, VOLUME 2 10 JANUARY 2014 Flying Operations TH-1H HELICOPTER AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading and ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AETC/A3V  Supersedes:   AFI11-2UH_TH-1HV2, 23 JULY 2009 Certified by: AF/A3O (Maj Gen Steven M. Shepro) Pages: 51   This  instruction  implements  AFPD  11-2,  Aircrew  Operations,  AFI  11-200,  Aircrew  Training, Standardization/Evaluation,  and  General  Operations  Structure,  and  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2, Aircrew  Standardization/Evaluation  Program.  It  establishes  the  minimum  Air  Force  standards for evaluating all aircrews performing duties in the TH-1H aircraft. This instruction applies to all major  commands  (MAJCOM)  where  active  duty,  Department  of  the  AF  Civilian  (DAF)  and contract  personnel  fly  the  TH-1H.  It  does  not  apply  to  the  Air  National  Guard,  or  Air  Force Reserve Command. File a copy of all approved waivers with this instruction. MAJCOMs  will  coordinate  MAJCOM-level  supplements  to  this  volume  through  AETC/A3V prior  to  publication.  Field  units  below  MAJCOM  level  will  coordinate  their  supplements  with their  parent  MAJCOM  office  of  primary  responsibility  (OPR)  before  publication.  Submit suggested  improvements  to  this  instruction  on  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication,  to  the  parent  MAJCOM  through  standardization/evaluation  (Stan/Eval)  channels, who will forward approved recommendations to AETC/A3V. Waiver requests shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph 1.1. The  Privacy  Act  of  1974  applies  to  certain  information  gathered  pursuant  to  this  instruction. Privacy Act System of Records Notice F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS),  applies.  The  authorities  to  collect  and  maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  this publication  are  Title  37  United  States  Code,  Section  301a,  Incentive  Pay,  Public  Law  92-204, Section  715,  Appropriations  Act  for  1973,  Public  Law  93-570,  Appropriations  Act  for  1974, Public  Law  93-294,  Aviation  Career  Incentive  Act  of  1974,  DoDI  7730.57,  Aviation  Career   2  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Incentive  Act  and  Required  Annual  Report,  Executive  Order  9397,  Numbering  System  for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, November 22, 1943, as amended by Executive Order  13478,  and  Executive  Order  9397,  Relating  to  Federal  Agency  Use  of  Social  Security Numbers, as amended, November 18, 2008. Force  Records Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained in accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  Attachment  1  contains  a  glossary  of references and supporting information used in this publication. The use of the name or mark of any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Information  Management System (AFRIMS) located SUMMARY OF CHANGES This is a new document and must be completely reviewed. Starting with the current AFI 11-2UH/TH-1H  Volume  2,  all  references  to  the  UH-1H  are  deleted.  Additionally  this  guidance  is modified  to  incorporate  evaluating  enlisted  aircrew  members  (abbreviated  as  FE  throughout document).  Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION    1.1. Approval and Waiver Authorities.   .........................................................................  1.2. Conducting Evaluations.   ........................................................................................  1.3. Evaluation Criteria Source.   ....................................................................................  1.4. Evaluation Conduct:   ..............................................................................................  1.5. Spot Evaluations of Other Aircrew Specialties.  .....................................................  1.6. Aircrew Publications.   .............................................................................................  Table  1.1. Required Aircrew Publications (T-3).   ....................................................................  1.7. Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM).   ......................................................  1.8. Evaluation Grading Instructions.   ...........................................................................  1.9. Aircrew Examination Procedures:   .........................................................................  Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS    2.1. Evaluation Requisites:   ...........................................................................................  2.2. EPEs:   ......................................................................................................................  2.3. Qualification Evaluations.  ......................................................................................  2.4. Instrument Evaluations.   .........................................................................................  2.5.  Mission (MSN) Evaluations.   .................................................................................  2.6. Certifications.   .........................................................................................................  4 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 6 6 6 8 8 8 8 8 8 9 AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 2.7. Instructor Evaluations.   ...........................................................................................  Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA    3.1. Ground Phase Requisites (P/FE).   ...........................................................................  3.2. EPE.   .......................................................................................................................  3.3. Evaluation Criteria.   ................................................................................................  Table  3.1. Grading Criteria.   ....................................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—TH-1H BOLDFACE EMERGENCY PROCEDURES       3  9 10 10 10 10 10 49 51   4  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Chapter 1 GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1.  Approval and Waiver Authorities.  The approval authority for changes or revisions to this instruction  is  AF/A3/5.  The  MAJCOM/A3  is  the  waiver  authority  for  this  instruction  unless specified elsewhere.  Submit waiver requests in memorandum format. 1.2.  Conducting  Evaluations.  Conduct all evaluations according to the provisions of AFI 11-202, Volume 2, and this instruction. (T-2) 1.3.  Evaluation  Criteria  Source.  Attachment  2  provides  TH-1H  crewmember  evaluation criteria for instrument, qualification, mission (MSN), and instructor evaluations. 1.4.  Evaluation Conduct: 1.4.1.  Flight  examiners  will use the evaluation  criteria contained in this volume to  conduct all  flight  and  emergency  procedures  evaluations  (EPE).  (T-1).  To  ensure  standard  and objective  evaluations,  flight  examiners  must  be  thoroughly  familiar  with  the  prescribed evaluation criteria. 1.4.2.  Unless  specified,  the  examinee  or  flight  examiner  may  fly  in  any  seat  (within  their crew qualification) that best enables the flight examiner to conduct a thorough evaluation. 1.4.3.  Prior  to  flight,  the  flight  examiner  will  brief  the  examinee  on  the  purpose  of  the evaluation and how it will be conducted and, if applicable, inform the aircraft commander of special requirements. The examinee will accomplish appropriate flight planning and mission preparation  and  furnish  the  flight  examiner  with  copies  of  mission  materials  to  include necessary maps (only one map per aircraft is required), flight logs, etc. (T-2). 1.4.4.  Units  will  use  AF  Form  4104,  TH-1H  Flight  Evaluation  Worksheet,  when administering flight evaluations and EPEs. (T-2) 1.4.5.  When  it  is  impossible  to  evaluate  a  required  area  in  flight  (due  to  equipment malfunctions,  operational  requirements,  scheduling  restrictions,  or  weather),  the  flight examiner may elect to evaluate the areas by an alternate method (verbal, procedural trainer).  In  the  ‘additional  comments’  section  of  the  Form  8  under    ‘Examiner  Remarks,’  document why required areas were not evaluated in flight and the alternate method of evaluation used. If, in the flight examiner’s judgment, a required item cannot be adequately evaluated by an alternate method, complete the evaluation on an additional flight. (AF Form 8 is prescribed in AFI 11-202, Volume 2. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.) 1.4.6.  For initial evaluations, all required items must be performed by actual demonstration. Additionally,  to  evaluate  a  specific  mission  area,  all  subareas  on  AF  Form  4104  must  be evaluated unless designated as optional. (T-2). 1.4.7.  All simulated emergency procedure maneuvers will be accomplished according to the guidance in TO 1H-1(T)H-1, Flight Manual, USAF Series TH-1H Helicopter; AFI 11-2TH-1H,  Volume  3,  TH-1H  Helicopter  Operations  Procedures;  and  AFTTP  3-3.H-1,  Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, H-1. (T-2) AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   5  1.4.8.  The flight  examiner will thoroughly debrief all  aspects  of the evaluation. During the debrief,  the  flight  examiner  will  review  the  overall  rating,  specific  deviations,  area  grades assigned, and required additional training (if applicable). (T-2). 1.4.9.  Instrument  evaluations  may  be  completely  administered  in  the  Weapon  Systems Trainer (WST). No evaluation profiles will be initiated in the WST, evaluations incomplete in the aircraft may be completed in the WST with 23 FTS/CC approval. Sound, visuals, and secondary motion are required for all evaluation profiles. Primary motion is not required, but highly recommended.  NOTE: Secondary motion systems provide additional cues including rotor vibrations, translational lift vibrations, and aircraft harmonics. 1.4.9.1.  The  following  maneuver  items  will  not  be  evaluated  in  the  WST  under  any conditions: precision hover, taxiing, slope operations, autorotations to a touchdown, and EMER GOV OPNS in a hover. Evaluators always have discretion to consider the impact of device fidelity upon examinee performance.  If the evaluator considers  the examinees performance to be detrimentally affected by the device fidelity, the evaluator must cease evaluation  in  the  simulator  (maneuvers  already  accomplished  will  be  graded;  ungraded maneuvers will be accomplished IAW paragraph 1.4.5). 1.4.9.2.  Formation  items  may  be  evaluated  using  lead-ship  record  function  or networking. 1.4.9.3.  Evaluators  must  be  Instructor  Operating  System  (IOS)  certified  to  conduct  a checkride in the simulator and may conduct checkrides from any IOS station in the WST. 1.5.  Spot  Evaluations  of  Other  Aircrew  Specialties.  Any  operations  group  Stan/Eval  or higher headquarters flight examiner, regardless of aircrew specialty, may administer aircrew spot evaluations. However, if the examiner is administering a spot evaluation to a person in another aircrew  specialty,  the  examiner  may  only  evaluate  boldface,  safety,  judgment,  situational awareness, and ability to instruct (if applicable). 1.6.  Aircrew  Publications.  Examiners will check aircrew publications during  all qualification evaluations  to  ensure  they  are  current  and  properly  posted.  (T-2).  Each  aircrew  member  is responsible  for  maintaining  the  publications  in  Table  1.1.  Electronic  publications  will  be maintained  IAW  AFI  11-215,  USAF  Flight  Manuals  Program,  AETC  Supplement.  The operations  group  commander  may  direct  additional  publications  be  maintained  or  required  in flight. Table 1.1.  Required Aircrew Publications (T-3).   Pilot Publication TO 1H-1(T)H-1 (note 1) TO 1H-1(T)H-1CL-1 TO 1H-1(T)H-5 Basic Weight Checklist and Loading Data (note 1) AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3 (note 1) AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, checklist AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules (note 1)  X   X  Flight Engineer (FE)  X  Required In Flight  X X  X   X    6  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Notes: 1-One copy required per aircraft 1.7.  Cockpit/Crew Resource  Management (CRM).  CRM is the effective use of all available resources  by  individuals  or  crews  to  safely  and  efficiently  accomplish  an  assigned  mission  or task. The term CRM refers to the training program, objectives, and key skills directed to this end. CRM  will  be  evaluated  on  all  flight  evaluations.    See  AFI  11-290,  Cockpit/Crew  Resource Management Program, for guidance. 1.8.  Evaluation  Grading  Instructions.  Areas not applicable to the unit or mission should not be performed; however, all areas performed will be graded. (T-2). 1.8.1.  Deviations.  Flight  examiners  will  base  tolerances  for  in-flight  parameters  on conditions of smooth air and a stable aircraft. Do not consider a momentary deviation from tolerances  provided  the  examinee  applies  prompt  corrective  action,  and  such  deviations  do not  jeopardize flying safety. The flight  examiner may  consider cumulative deviations when determining the overall grade. (T-2). 1.8.2.  Standards  and  Grading  Guide.  The  standards  and  grading  criteria  contained  in Attachment  2  are  provided  as  a  guide  to  assist  the  flight  examiner  in  determining  grades. These  criteria  are  not  necessarily  provided  as  minimum  or  maximum  parameters  for  each maneuver.  Examiners should compare examinee performance for each grading area with the standards provided in this instruction and consider all other factors before assigning grades. The  flight  examiner  derives  the  overall  flight  evaluation  grade  according  to  AFI  11-202, Volume 2, and this volume, and must: 1.8.2.1.  Exercise  judgment  when  wording  of  grading  criteria  is  subjective  and  when specific situations are not covered. (T-2). 1.8.2.2.  Use his or her judgment as the determining factor in assigning the overall grade. (T-2). 1.8.3.  Critical  Areas  and  Subareas.  Critical  areas  and  subareas  are  defined  as  those  that can  be  graded  only  “Q”  or  “U”  (e.g.  BOLDFACE).  Any  unsatisfactory  performance  in  a critical  area  or  subarea  will  result  in  a  qualification  level  of  "Q-3".  Critical  areas  and subareas are identified in Attachment 2 with an asterisk (*). (T-2). 1.8.4.  Noncritical  Areas  and  Subareas.  Noncritical  areas  and  subareas  are  graded  either “Q”, “Q-”, or “U”. Unsatisfactory performance in a noncritical area or subarea will result in a qualification level of no higher than “Q-2”. (T-2). 1.8.5.  Area  and  Subarea  Grades.  The  desired  level  of  performance,  “Q”,  is  listed  in Attachment  2 for each  area or subarea. Refer to  the definitions for “Q”, “Q-”, and “U” in AFI 11-202, Volume 2. 1.9.  Aircrew Examination Procedures: 1.9.1.  Computer-based training or electronic information management tools may satisfy the requirement  for  written  examinations  if  the  electronic  format  meets  the  requirements  for examinations  in  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2.  Units  may  generate  a  unique  test  for  each crewmember using appropriate computer software programs. AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   7  1.9.2.  The  number  of  test  questions  will  be  determined  using  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2,  as supplemented by the MAJCOM. (T-2). The following is the minimum number of questions to be used; this number may be raised by MAJCOM supplement: 1.9.2.1.  Qualification Open.  Fifty questions. 1.9.2.2.  Qualification Closed.  Twenty-five questions. 1.9.2.3.  Instrument Open.  Fifty questions. 1.9.2.4.  Mission Open.  Fifty questions.   8  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Chapter 2 EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS 2.1.  Evaluation Requisites: 2.1.1.  Refer to AFI 11-202, Volume 2, for qualification and instrument evaluation requisites. 2.1.2.  MSN  evaluation  requisites  consist  of  an  MSN  open-book  examination  and  EPE (evaluate  MSN-specific  emergency  procedures  and  systems  knowledge  during  MSN evaluations).  Note: A MSN open-book examination is not required for an MSN evaluation that adds a qualification for a crewmember.  However, if the MSN open-book examination is not completed, the evaluation will not update the 17-month cycle. 2.2.  EPEs: 2.2.1.  EPEs will not be conducted in flight (aircraft or WST). The purpose of the EPE is to evaluate systems knowledge and emergency procedures on the ground, allowing a more in-depth investigation of systems knowledge and scenario-driven circumstances. (T-2). 2.2.2.  The  EPE  is  a  verbal  evaluation  and  should  be  scenario  driven  with  an  emphasis  on emergency  procedures  and  systems  knowledge.  Flight  examiners  may  use  one  continuous scenario throughout the EPE or different scenarios for each emergency procedure. (T-2). 2.2.3.  Examinees  may  use  publications  that  are  normally  available  in  flight.  The  examinee must recall applicable boldface items from memory. (T-2). 2.2.4.  The flight examiner may present situational emergency procedures in flight (use of the WST  is  encouraged);  however,  they  will  NOT  be  graded  as  an  EPE.  Instead,  situational emergency  procedures  presented  in  flight  will  be  graded  under  the  Knowledge  of Publications,  Systems,  and  Limits  section  of  AF  Form  4104.  The  WST  offers  an  excellent platform  to  evaluate  situational  emergency  procedures;  however,  Flight  Evaluation  Criteria are the same for the WST as they are for the aircraft. 2.2.5.  Boldface  procedures  may  be  associated  with  situational  EPEs.  If  not,  knowledge  of boldface procedures will be demonstrated to the flight examiner either verbally or in writing. All boldface emergencies must be covered for qualification evaluations. (T-2). 2.2.6.  The  flight  examiner  will  assign  an  overall  grade  to  the  EPE  (1,  2,  or  3)  in  the qualification ground phase of the AF Form 8. (T-2). 2.3.  Qualification Evaluations.  Complete all required subareas on AF Form 4104 under Areas I  and  II  for  the  crewmember’s  aircrew  specialty.  If  the  crewmember  is  an  instructor,  complete Area IV. Subareas labeled optional do not have to be accomplished in flight but as a minimum will be evaluated verbally. (T-2). 2.4.  Instrument  Evaluations.  Complete all required subareas on AF Form 4104 from Areas I and  III.  If  the  crewmember  is  an  instructor,  complete  Area  IV.    Subareas  labeled  optional  not accomplished in flight will be evaluated verbally. (T-2). 2.5.  Mission (MSN) Evaluations.  Complete all required areas and subareas for initial mission (INIT  MSN)  and  requalification  mission  (RQ  MSN)  evaluations.  Aircrew  must  be  trained  and initially evaluated on remotes, low-level, and formation night vision goggles (NVG) to be night-AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   9  mission qualified. All night-mission maneuvers will be accomplished using NVGs for initial and requalification  evaluations.  (T-2).  Note:    In  certain  cases,  civilian  contract  instructors  may  be qualified  in  some,  but  not  all,  MSN  events.  In  this  case,  the  INIT  MSN  evaluation  will  only include those areas in which the instructor received training, and the AF Form 8 will clearly state in which areas the instructor has been evaluated and is qualified to instruct.  For recurrent MSN evaluations,  complete  all  of  Area  I,  AF  Form  4104,  and  a  representative  sample  of  mission subareas  from  Area  V.  If  the  crewmember  is  an  instructor,  complete  Area  IV.    Evaluators  are encouraged to give the crewmember a scenario representative of a unit mission. Not every unit mission  needs  to  be  evaluated  in  flight,  and  unit  missions  can  be  conducted  day  or  night  for recurrent  MSN  evaluations.    An  attempt  should  be  made  to  alternate  day  and  night  mission profiles on periodic MSN evaluations. 2.6.  Certifications.  Certifications do not require evaluations. Document certifications on an AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications, with the squadron commander's signature.  AF Form 4348 is  prescribed in AFI 11-202, Volume 2.    Refer to  that publication for  guidance on  filling out the forms. 2.7.  Instructor  Evaluations.  To  initially  qualify  as  an  instructor  in  the  TH-1H,  the crewmember  must  successfully  complete  an  initial  instructor  evaluation.  The  evaluation  must include  a  representative  sampling  from  Areas  I,  II,  III,  IV,  and  V  of  the  AF  Form  4104. Exception:  If the crewmember transferred current  MSN qualifications from  another H-1 series aircraft, the evaluation must include all required subareas from Areas I, II, and IV but only the portions  of  Area  V  where  a  current  MSN  qualification  did  not  already  exist.  Note:    Evaluator status  is  a  certification  versus  a  qualification.  Certified  evaluators  will  be  given  recurring evaluations acting in the instructor crew position.  (T-2). 2.7.1.  Evaluate Area IV during all periodic evaluations for instructors. (T-2). 2.7.2.  Thoroughly  evaluate  the  examinee’s  instructor  knowledge  and  ability  as  outlined  in Attachment 2.   10  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Chapter 3 EVALUATION CRITERIA 3.1.  Ground  Phase  Requisites  (P/FE).  Ground phase requisites requirements vary depending upon the specific evaluation administered according to AFI 11-202, Volume 2, and may include a  combination  of  applicable  examinations,  boldface,  and  an  EPE.  Grading  criteria  for  ground phase  requisites  are  conducted  according  to  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2,  or  as  defined  in  this attachment. 3.2.  EPE.  (P/FE) EPEs are graded by qualification levels as follows: 3.2.1.  (1) Given a simulated emergency, correctly analyzed the situation and provided the appropriate action. (Boldface, if required, was provided promptly with correct response in the correct sequence.) Used the checklist or flight manual, as required. Demonstrated a thorough understanding of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance characteristics. 3.2.2.  (2) Made minor deviations from (1) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver or mission effectiveness. Analysis was slow or incomplete. Had some deficiencies in systems knowledge. Referred to the checklist or flight manual, as required. 3.2.3.   (3) Made major deviations from (1) criteria. Made incorrect analysis or incorrect response to boldface. If required, boldface was provided with significant hesitation or with incorrect response or sequence. Had significant deficiencies in systems knowledge. Did not refer to the checklist or flight manual, as required. 3.3.  Evaluation  Criteria.  Table  3.1  provides  the  grading  criteria  for  determining  individual area  grades  (see  paragraph  1.4.3).  Use  all  criteria  applicable  to  the  events  performed  on  the evaluation. (T-2). 3.1.1.  Table 3.1 divides grading areas into subareas where applicable. FEs will assign grades to  each subarea  where the table provides evaluation criteria  and the examinee performs  the maneuver. FE’s will annotate discrepancies on the AF Form 8 by area or subarea. 3.1.2.  Asterisked (*) items identify critical sub areas. Table 3.1.  Grading Criteria. I T E M A Area Section I: General B Q C Grading Criteria Q- D U 1  Knowledge of Publications, Systems, and Limits: (P/FE)  Demonstrated a thorough knowledge of National Airspace System rules and procedures, applicable aircraft, equipment, publications, and systems operating Made minor errors or omissions from (Q) criteria. Deviations did not involve any safety of flight issues in regard to National Airspace System rules and procedures, Unfamiliar with National Airspace System rules, procedures, and other applicable aircraft, equipment, publications, and system operating AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   11  applicable aircraft, equipment, publications, and systems operating limits. Made minor errors or omissions from (Q) criteria.  Computations were within the following specified tolerances: weight +200 pounds, power available +2 percent, power required +3 percent, and Vne +3 knots. limits and procedures. Made gross errors and (or) omissions from (Q) criteria that would prevent safe and effective mission accomplishment. Computations were not within (Q-) tolerances.  2 Performance Data/Weight and Balance: (P/FE)  limits. Ensured satisfactory operation within limits. Checked all factors applicable to the flight. Verified accuracy of performance data and weight and balance information to ensure operation within specified parameters. Correctly computed takeoff and landing data (TOLD) and (or) weight and balance according to the flight manual and the student guide.  Determined the fuel required +50 pounds and endurance +10 minutes (based on the expected fuel at takeoff) and the average cruise airspeed planned. Computed the TOLD within the following specified tolerances: weight +100 pounds, power available +1 percent, power required +2 percent, and velocity never to exceed (Vne) +2 knots. 3 Preflight and Postflight: (P/FE) Accomplished required aircraft or equipment inspections according to the flight manual and applicable directives. Ensured Made minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety or mission effectiveness. Lacked acceptable Failed to complete preflight and (or) postflight checklists or did so in an unsafe manner.   12  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 the aircraft was correctly configured for assigned mission and was fully aware of aircraft readiness for flight. Appropriate checklists and (or) technical orders (T.O.) were out and available for reference. Ensured all required personal and mission equipment was available. Equipment was properly preflighted, operated, and secured. Had a thorough understanding of the information contained in aircraft and equipment forms and correctly determined aircraft or equipment status. Completed all required forms (before, during, and after flight, to include training folders, as applicable) without significant errors. Satisfactorily loaded or offloaded the aircraft and secured all cargo and equipment according to the flight manual and other applicable directives.  4 Cargo and Passenger Loading, Offloading, and Tiedown: (P/FE) familiarity with preflight and (or) postflight procedures. Unsafely loaded or offloaded the aircraft and (or) unsafely secured cargo and equipment not according to the flight manual and (or) other applicable directives. Made minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety or mission effectiveness. Did not satisfactorily load or offload the aircraft and (or) secure all cargo and equipment according to the flight manual and other applicable directives. IP intervention was required to secure AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   13  5 Startup and Shutdown Procedures: (P/FE) 6 Use of Checklists: (P/FE)  cargo and equipment. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria.  Did not compromise safety or mission effectiveness. Lacked acceptable familiarity with startup procedures.     Unsafely attempted startup and shutdown procedures.  Incorrectly configured the cockpit and (or) failed to coordinate with ground support personnel. Unfamiliar with required responses to abnormal or emergency situations. Did not use or complete checklists. Lacked acceptable familiarity with contents.   Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety of mission effectiveness. Slow to respond and (or) had difficulty executing proper procedures and had poor checklist discipline. Before-takeoff and (or) before-landing checklists did not adequately cover aircrew intentions in the event of an abort, aircraft problem, etc.   Accomplished startup and shutdown procedures, including all required checks according to the flight manual, checklists, and applicable directives. Correctly configured the cockpit and coordinated with ground support personnel.  Familiar with required responses to abnormal or emergency situations. (Q) Effectively referenced and completed appropriate checklists with accurate and timely responses. Was familiar with checklists and contents.  Demonstrated a thorough knowledge of checklist notes, cautions, and warnings without reference to the flight manual. Before-takeoff and (or) before-landing checklists adequately covered aircrew intentions in the event of an abort, aircraft problem, etc. Without prompting from the instructor or evaluator, initiated level off, after-landing, before-  14  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014    takeoff, before-takeoff (multiple takeoffs), before-landing, and hot-refueling checklists, as appropriate, in flight. Recognized factors affecting safety of flight. Assessed available options and selected a suitable course of action based on reasonable risk assessment. Was aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft operation and mission accomplishment.  Assessed all aspects of the situation and took an appropriate course of action consistent with prudence, common sense, integrity, mission priority, and safe and effective mission accomplishment. Aware of and responded to all factors that affected safety, crewmembers, aircraft, or mission effectiveness. Maintained continuous perception of self and aircraft in relation to the dynamic environment *7  Safety: (P/FE) (Critical) *8  Flight Discipline: (P/FE) (Critical)  9 Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM): (P/FE) *a. Airmanship/ Situational Awareness (Critical): Not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe operation of aircraft or mission accomplishment. Did not adequately clear the aircraft. Operated aircraft in a dangerous manner. Unnecessarily subjected crew or aircraft to increased risk. Compromised safety and allowed a dangerous situation to develop. An untimely or inappropriate decision led to an inappropriate response to the situation, compromised integrity or safety, and (or) degraded effective mission accomplishment. An untimely or inappropriate decision led to an inappropriate response to the situation which compromised safety. AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   15  b. Crew Coordination and Flight Integrity: of flight, threats, and mission. Demonstrated the ability to forecast and then execute tasks based on that perception. Demonstrated knowledge and skills to prevent the loss of situational awareness, recognized the loss of situational awareness, and when necessary, demonstrated techniques for recovering from the loss of situational awareness. Communicated and coordinated effectively with other crewmembers without misunderstanding, confusion, or delay. Considered the needs, responsibilities, abilities, and inputs of all crewmembers. Worked effectively with all members of the crew to accomplish the tasks of the mission. Utilized all the members of the flying package to accomplish the mission at hand. Had knowledge of and effectively exercised the attributes of leadership, responsibility, assertiveness, conflict resolution, hazardous An untimely or inappropriate decision led to an inappropriate response to the situation that compromised safety. Slow to respond and (or) had difficulty executing proper procedures and had poor checklist discipline. Slow to respond to the needs, responsibilities, abilities, and inputs of all crewmembers. Did not work effectively with all members of the crew to accomplish the tasks of the mission.   16  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Slow to comply with controlling agency instructions or unsure of reporting requirements. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver or mission effectiveness.  Unfamiliar with proper communications procedures. Required contacts were delayed, misleading, or incorrect. Failed to comply with controlling agency instructions and (or) accepted clearance with which they could not comply. Entered controlled airspace without the proper clearance. c. Communications/ ATC Procedures attitudes, behavioral styles, legitimate avenues of dissent, and team building. Fully knowledgeable of communications procedures. Required contacts were made without hesitation, omission, or discrepancy. Promptly complied with all controlling agency’s instructions and made required reports. When communicating with air traffic control (ATC) facilities, used correct radio communication procedures and phraseology per the Airman’s Information Manual and DoD flight information publications (FLIP). Acknowledged each radio communication with ATC by using the correct call sign. Obtained proper clearance from the controlling agency. Shared information with others to cause some kind of action—direct, inform, question, or persuade. Had knowledge of common errors, cultural influences, and barriers (grade, age, experience, and position). Demonstrated effective listening, AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   17  d. Risk Management/ Decision Making feedback, precision, and efficiency of communication with all members and agencies (crewmembers, wingmen, weather, ATC, intelligence, etc.). Accurately completed risk assessment and mitigation throughout the flight. Updated risk analysis throughout the mission and kept the crew informed of changes. Exercised a logic-based, commonsense approach to making calculated decisions on human, material, and environmental factors before, during, and after mission activities and operations. Demonstrated the ability to choose a course of action, using logical and sound judgment based on available information. Effectively incorporated risk assessment, the risk management process, tools, breakdowns in judgment and discipline, problem solving, evaluation of hazards, and control measures. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Slow to recognize, assess, and mitigate risk throughout the flight. Did not demonstrate the ability to choose a course of action and used poor logic and unsound judgment based on available information. Did not effectively incorporate risk assessment, the risk management process, tools, breakdowns in judgment and discipline, problem solving, evaluation of hazards, and (or) the necessary control measures to effectively mitigate risks associated with the mission. e. Task Effectively Slow to consider Unfamiliar with task   18  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 management procedures, which compromised mission integrity and (or) flight safety. priorities, overload, underload, complacency, available resources, checklist discipline, and standard operating procedures. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, maneuver effectiveness, or mission effectiveness. Minor errors and (or) omissions from (Q) criteria. Minor errors while completing DD Form 175-1 and AF IMT 70, which did not compromise mission integrity and (or) flight safety. Gross errors and (or) omissions from (Q) criteria. Significant errors while completing DD Form 175-1 and AF IMT 70, which compromised mission integrity and (or) flight safety.  Management f. Mission Planning demonstrated the ability to alter a course of action based on new information, maintain constructive behavior under pressure, and adapted to internal and external environment changes. Properly established priorities; avoided overload, underload and complacency; managed available resources, checklist discipline and standard operating procedures. Developed a sound and thorough plan to accomplish the mission. Accounted for all factors applicable to the flight (weather, notices to airmen [NOTAM], landing site data, FLIPs, weight and balance, performance data, fuel requirements, maps current and chummed, etc.) according to applicable directives. Completed DD Form 175-1, Flight Weather Briefing, and AF IMT 70, Pilot’s Flight Plan and Flight Log, as applicable, without significant errors. (AF IMT 70 is prescribed in AFI 11-202, Volume 3. Refer to the publication for AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   19  g. Briefings and Debriefings Events were out of sequence, redundant, or difficult to understand. Did not effectively use training aids. Focused on nonessential items or omitted minor details. Did not consider flight members’ abilities. Managed time poorly. Passenger briefing lacked sufficient information. Note: If not the briefer or debriefer, did not fully understand duties, and a lack of action or input created minor problems but did not affect safe mission accomplishment. Presentation was disorganized or in an illogical sequence. Created doubts or confusion or omitted major events. Did not allow sufficient time for preflight of personal equipment, aircraft, and (or) mission equipment. Ignored flight members’ abilities, limitations, and (or) questions. Did not brief passengers. Did not debrief mission deviations or offer corrective guidance. Did not debrief maintenance personnel, as required. Note: If not the briefer or debriefer, was late or missed the briefing. Was not prepared or did not actively participate when requested. Did not fully understand duties, and a lack of action or input created problems that impacted safe mission accomplishment. guidance on filling out the form.) Presented a logical, well organized, and professional briefing in a timely manner. Covered all factors pertaining to the flight and provided effective discussion for accomplishing the mission. Concluded the briefing in time to allow for a thorough preflight of personal equipment, aircraft, and mission equipment. Considered the abilities and limitations of all flight members. Effectively used training aids. Thoroughly and professionally briefed passengers. Thoroughly debriefed the mission, including mission accomplishment, deviations, and lessons learned. Offered correct guidance, as appropriate. Debriefed maintenance personnel as required. Note: If not the briefer or debriefer, actively participated and provided input when required. Fully understood the briefing and debriefing and   20  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 10  Fuel Management: (P/FE) 11  Scanning and Clearing: (P/FE) followed instructions. Updated fuel status at each way point on the navigational route. Determined an updated fuel required and endurance in flight when required to divert, hold, or fuel consumption was more than 50 pounds per hour (pph) greater than predicted on the performance planning card. Understood and monitored continuation fuels and bingo fuels for each major way point and for the stage field during contact. Provided clear, concise, and positive direction to the crew during all phases of flight. Ensured aircraft clearance from obstacles.  Appropriately alerted crew to obstacles within 25 feet of aircraft. Section II: QUALIFICATION 12  Publications Check: (P/FE) Publications current and properly posted.  Minor errors and (or) omissions from (Q) criteria Major deviations from (Q) criteria Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness.  Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment. Was unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.  Publications current with minor or administrative errors in posting.  Publications not current and (or) with errors in posting that resulted in incorrect or incomplete information. 13  Hover and Taxi Maneuvers: (P) Performed hover and taxi according to procedures outlined in the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   21  14  Takeoffs: (P) effectiveness.  accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness.  Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment. Was unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements. Maintained desired position and ground track +2 feet, heading +10 degrees. Taxied at constant speed and altitude of 4 feet (+1 foot). While turning, did not exceed 90 degrees in 4 seconds. Was familiar with marshaling signals. Performed takeoffs according to procedures outlined in the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements. Maintained constant ground track and climbout angle. Maintained takeoff heading +10 degrees below 50 feet. Aircraft was in trim above 50 feet of simulated or real obstacle. Maintained constant airspeed after achieving 70 knots indicated airspeed (KIAS) +10. Applied smooth power application and maintained takeoff power +2 percent. If necessary, takeoff abort was executed in a safe and timely manner as briefed or   22  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 required without exceeding aircraft limitations. a. Normal Takeoff. Initiated from the ground or a 4 feet (+1 foot) hover. Applied hover power plus 10 percent and achieved approximately 70 KIAS prior to 100 feet above ground level (AGL), but greater than 15 feet by 60 KIAS (as depicted in the height-velocity diagram) or as briefed. b. Marginal Power Takeoff. Initiated at a 4 feet (+1 foot) hover or from the ground. Accelerated without ground contact. Applied no more than 4-foot hover power. Cleared a real or simulated 50-foot obstacle down range. Accomplished climbout above effective translational lift (ETL) without descending below 50 feet and (or) the obstacle while accelerating to 50 KIAS. c. Maximum Performance Takeoff. Initiated at a 4 feet (+1 foot) hover or from the ground. Applied desired power (usually 4-foot AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   23  Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. hover power plus 10-15 percent) smoothly and positively. Cleared a real or simulated 100-foot obstacle. Accomplished climbout without descending below 100 feet and (or) the obstacle while accelerating to 70 KIAS. 15  Approaches (P)  Performed the approach according to procedures outlined in the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements. Maintained constant ground track, approach angle, and aircraft in trim above 50 feet (below 50 feet aligned aircraft with lane or desired landing direction). Descent and deceleration were constant and even. If necessary, a go-around was executed in a safe and timely manner as briefed or required without exceeding aircraft limitations. Terminated the approach within 5 feet of intended landing or hover spot. Arrived at or near zero groundspeed on   24  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 termination of the approach. a. Normal Approach. Entered at 300 feet AGL(or appropriate stagefield altitude) and 70 KIAS. Started the descent on an apparent approach angle of 30 degrees. Terminated to hover or touchdown at the desired landing point. b. Steep Approach. Entered at 300 feet AGL (or appropriate stagefield altitude) and 30 knots apparent groundspeed. Started descent on an apparent approach angle of 45 degrees. Terminated to touch down at the desired landing point. Achieved at or near zero groundspeed at intended hover or touchdown spot. c. Shallow Approach. Entered at 300 feet AGL (or appropriate stagefield altitude) and 70 KIAS. Started the descent on an apparent approach angle of 10 degrees. Terminated to hover or slide at the desired landing point. d. Turning Approach (Optional). Entered from any applicable AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   25  Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness.  Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. 16  Landings: (P) point in the traffic pattern. Executed a continually descending, decelerating turn to align the aircraft with the landing spot. Terminated to hover or touch down at the desired landing point. Performed landing according to procedures outlined in flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements. Maintained constant heading +10 degrees. a. To a Hover. Terminated at 3 to 5 feet over the intended spot with no forward speed. b. To a Touchdown. Maintained a constant rate of descent to touchdown. Touched down with minimal forward speed over the intended spot. Touched down without excessive descent rate and with no side drift. c. To a Slide. Maintained above ETL until touchdown. Maintained alignment with the landing area. Level touchdown was accomplished at the   26  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 17  Traffic Pattern (P) 18 a. Simulated Engine Failure: (P) intended location with minimal rate of descent. Performed traffic pattern according to procedures outlined in the flight manual and other directives. Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements. Maintained a rectangular pattern. Maintained 90 KIAS and 500 feet AGL on downwind and 70 KIAS and 300 feet AGL on base (or per local directives) with airspeed deviations <+10 KIAS and altitude deviations <+100 feet. Conducted a level turn to final on desired heading +10 degrees. Maintained the aircraft in trim.  Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Recognized the emergency, determined the appropriate corrective action, and performed or simulated (as required) from memory all immediate action procedures described in the aircraft checklist. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Airspeed deviations <+20 KIAS and altitude deviations <+150 feet.  Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment. Was unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Airspeed deviations >+20 KIAS and altitude deviations >+150 feet. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.  Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Unable to analyze engine and rotor responses.  Unaware of or unresponsive to AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   27  a. At Altitude. Selected a suitable landing area. Correctly terminated maneuver as directed by the IP. b. At a Hover. Entered from a 4 feet (+1 foot) hover.  Maintained aircraft heading +10 degrees, while descending at a steady rate without stair stepping. Maintained position over the ground within 1 foot. Executed a smooth, controlled descent and touchdown with little to no lateral or rearward drift. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Communicated aircraft performance quickly and effectively. All advisory calls made to the pilot flying were consistent and clear, and FE was able to explain corrective actions.  b. Simulated Engine Failure: (FE) factors affecting the aircraft. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Major deviations from (Q) criteria.  Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Failed to make appropriate advisory calls to the crew.  Unable to analyze engine and rotor responses.  Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft. 19 a. Hydraulics-Off Approach: (P) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist and Minor deviations from (Q) criteria.  Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or Major deviations from (Q) criteria.  Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective   28  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Maintained a minimum entry altitude of 300 feet +50 feet.  Maintained a minimum entry airspeed of 70 KIAS +10 KIAS. Maintained heading control +10 degrees and alignment with landing direction. Maintained ground track aligned with the landing area.  Maintained a constant shallow approach angle.   Executed a smooth, controlled touchdown at or above ETL, but no faster than 30 KIAS, with landing area alignment +5 degrees. Note: May be evaluated to a touchdown as outlined above, or to a planned 50 feet go-around. A third option is a steep approach to a no-hover touchdown in which case steep approach parameters apply. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Communicated aircraft alignment and performance to pilot flying in an accurate  b. Hydraulics-Off Approach: (FE) maneuver effectiveness. maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.  Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe.  Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria.  Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Major deviations from (Q) criteria.  Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   29  procedures.  Failed to make appropriate calls to preclude unsafe aircraft positioning or touchdown dangerously fast/slow.  Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft. Major deviations from (Q) criteria.  Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.  Aircraft control was erratic or unsafe.  Minor deviations from (Q) criteria.  Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. 20  Autorotation: (P) and timely manner.  Able to explain corrective actions. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements.  Controlled rotor speed (Nr) throughout the maneuver (91-105 percent) and maintained safe airspeed (70 KIAS minimum prior to the flare). Maintained aircraft in trim. If a power recovery during descent was required, initiated in a timely and effective manner without exceeding aircraft limitations. Obtained steady state parameters prior to the flare and flared at an appropriate altitude (between approximately 100 and 75 feet AGL). a. Straight-Ahead   30  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Autorotation. Entered no lower than 500 feet AGL. b. Turning Autorotation. Entered no lower than 800 feet AGL. c. Low-Level Autorotation. Entered no lower than 50 feet above highest obstacle (AHO). d. Hovering Autorotation. Entered from 4 feet (+1 foot) hover. Aligned aircraft within 15 degrees of the wind prior to entry. After entry, maintained aircraft heading +10 degrees, while descending at a steady rate without stair stepping.  Maintained position over the ground within 1 foot.  Executed a smooth, controlled descent and touchdown with little to no lateral or rearward drift. e. Power Recovery. Affected a smooth and controlled power recovery and would have landed safely and in the desired area. Power recovery completed at no lower than 4 feet at 0 to 15 knots groundspeed.  Maintained heading alignment within +10 AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   31  degrees during power application. f. Touchdown. Applied initial pitch at approximately 15 feet AGL. Touched down between 5 and 25 knots groundspeed with no lateral drift.  Maintained heading alignment within +10 degrees during touchdown and slide. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Communicated aircraft performance quickly and effectively. All advisory calls made to the pilot flying were consistent and clear, and FE was able to explain corrective actions. FEs must be evaluated: a Straight Ahead Autorotation, a Turning Autorotation, or both. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Maintained Nf at 97% +/- 3% while maintaining Nr in the green (91-105%).  Smoothly coordinated the throttle and Autorotation: (FE) 21  Emergency Governor Operations (Optional): (P) Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness.  Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Failed to make appropriate advisory calls to the crew. Unable to analyze engine and rotor responses.   Minor deviations from (Q) criteria.  Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Major deviations from (Q) criteria.  Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic   32  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Emergency Governor Operations (Optional): (FE) collective.  Maintained altitude +1 foot.   Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other directives.  Communicated aircraft performance in an accurate and timely manner.  Able to explain corrective actions. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. and (or) unsafe. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Missed multiple advisory calls indicating deviations of (Q) standards.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft. Section III: Instruments (P) General instrument deviation criteria for this section (applies to all instrument flight) Event Q Q- U Airspeed Altitude Heading < +10 KIAS < +20 KIAS > +20 KIAS < +100 feet < +300 feet > +300 feet < +10 degrees < +15 degrees > +15 degrees Maintaining Arc < +1 nm < +2 nm > +2 nm 22 Instrument Cockpit Check  Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklists, and other directives.  Ensured required publications were on board.  Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Was unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. 23 Instrument Departure, Climb, or Level Off  Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklists, and other directives.  Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   33  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements.  Performed a departure as published or directed and complied with all restrictions. Maintained takeoff power—4-foot hover power +10-15 percent.  Maintained accelerative attitude of 5 degrees nose low +2 degrees.  Maintained constant heading +10 degrees.  Aircraft was in trim above 40 KIAS.  Maintained a positive rate of climb.  Leveled off smoothly at a specified altitude.  Promptly established proper cruise airspeed. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in flight manual, checklists, and other directives.  Ensured navigation aids (NAVAID) were properly tuned, identified, and monitored. Used appropriate navigation procedures and demonstrated the capability to navigate accurately. Complied with clearance instructions. Aware of position at all times.  Fix to fix within 1 effectiveness.  accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness.  Fix to fix within 2 nm. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe.  Errors in procedures or use of navigation equipment. Could not establish position.  Deviations would have violated airspace or resulted in an  Use of NAVAIDs and Navigation   34  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 25  Holding Procedures: 26  Precision Approach unsafe maneuver. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established holding procedures or directives.  Incorrect entry procedures.  Unable to make appropriate timing or wind corrections.  Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Deviation would have violated airspace or resulted in an unsafe maneuver. Exceeded Q- limits. Major deviations and/or erratic corrections. Did not respond to controller instructions, resulting, in erratic glidepath and heading control in a timely manner.  Extended flight below decision height and/or position would not have permitted a safe landing. nautical mile (nm). Complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklists, and other directives. Able to correctly enter and maintain a holding pattern. Able to estimate winds and make appropriate corrections.  Able to make timing corrections for very high frequency omnidirectional range station, or nondirectional beacon (NDB) holding.  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements.  Complied with ATC instructions. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklists, and other directives.  Able to fly a precision approach as published/directed.  Complied with all restrictions. Made smooth and timely corrections. Position would have permitted a safe landing.  Either instrument landing system (ILS) or precision approach radar (PAR) may be accomplished. For ILS, maintained on Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Minor deviations detracted from the approach. Position at decision height would have permitted a safe landing.  For ILS, course deviation was +2 dots; glide slope was 1 3/4 dots below to 2 3/4 dots above.  For PAR, slow response to controller’s instructions caused poor glidepath control, but never exceeded well above or below glidepath.  Heading was + 10 degrees of controller AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   35  27  Nonprecision Approach instruction. Exceeded Q- limits.  Did not comply with procedures or restrictions. Extended flight below MDA.  Not in a position for a safe landing. For ASR, did not respond to controller instruction. For GPS, failed to check valid RAIM prior to FAF. Executed approach with minor deviations (within +2 dots, NDB approach +15 degrees). Arrived at MDA at or before the MAP, but deviation was greater than (Q) criteria.  Position would have permitted a safe landing. For ASR approach, did not exceed “well left/right of course” and complied with controller instructions in a timely manner.  Note: The -50-foot tolerance at MDA applies only to momentary excursions.  course and glidepath with no more than momentary deviations one dot left or right of course centerline and (or) one dot below to two dots above glidepath and not more than momentary descent below decision height. For PAR, followed controller instructions (heading was + 5 degrees). Had no more than a momentary descent below decision height. Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in flight manual, checklists, and other directives.  Able to fly a nonprecision approach as published or directed. Complied with all restrictions.  Made smooth and timely corrections.  Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA (+100 to - 50 feet) at or before FAF.  Note: The -50-foot tolerance at MDA applies only to momentary excursions. Had no more than a momentary descent below minimum descent altitude (MDA). Course deviation within +1 dot. For NDB   36  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 approach +10 degrees.  For ASR, made smooth and timely response to controller instructions and heading was +5 degrees of controller instructions. For GPS, check valid RAIM prior to FAF.  Position would have permitted a safe landing. Complied with instructions and restrictions. Was able to safely land the aircraft at the termination of an instrument approach in the desired landing area as briefed. Complied with procedures outlined in flight manual, checklists, and other applicable directives.  Adjusted airspeed to briefed climbout airspeed.  Executed missed approach or climbout as published or directed. Was familiar with and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklists, and other directives. Was able to recover from an unusual attitude using 28  Transition to Landing (Optional): 29  Missed Approach or Climbout 30  Unusual Attitude Procedures (Optional) Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness.  Minor deviations from (Q) criteria.  Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Major deviations from (Q) criteria.  Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Major deviations from (Q) criteria. Errors or omissions prevented safe and effective maneuver accomplishment.  Unfamiliar with or did not comply with AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   37  appropriate procedures Section IV: Instructor *31 Ability To Instruct (Critical) (P/FE) 32  Demonstration of Maneuvers (P/FE) Reviewed student’s present level of training and defined mission events to be performed.  Developed a sound plan for accomplishing necessary tasks.  Provided a well-organized, thorough student briefing.  Planned ahead and made timely decisions.  Demonstrated the ability to communicate effectively and offered instruction or suggestions for improvement. Able to effectively demonstrate procedures and maneuvers.  Demonstrated a thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures, and all applicable publications and directives.  established procedures. Aircraft control was erratic and (or) unsafe. Failed to assess student’s present level of training. Briefings were marginal or nonexistent. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems. Was unable to communicate effectively with the student or did not provide corrective actions where necessary Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Did not demonstrate correct procedures.  Had an insufficient depth of knowledge about aircraft systems, procedures, and (or) applicable publications or directives. 33  Performance Analysis and Critique (P/FE) Accurately assessed student performance.  Was able to discern problem areas.  Correctly identified performance Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver effectiveness. Performed an inaccurate assessment of student performance. Failed to discern or misdiagnosed several   38  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014  deficiencies or strengths. Was able to provide performance feedback at appropriate times.  Was able to reconstruct the flight, offer analysis, and provide corrective guidance where appropriate.  Completed all training documents thoroughly and accurately.  Section V: Mission (as applicable) 34  Visual Flight Rules (VFR) Navigation: (P/FE) Able to regain position orientation in a minimal amount of time. Adapted to missed checkpoints and turn points.  Familiar with and effectively used available aircraft navigational systems.  Able to satisfactorily determine position when map reading.  Correctly analyzed all airspace along route and planned accordingly.  Recognized checkpoints and turn points. Consistently remained on planned course +1 mile.  Adjusted for deviations in time and course. Updated estimated times of arrival as needed at each major way point.  problem areas.  Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies.  Provided performance feedback at inopportune times or not at all. Unable to reconstruct the flight, offer analysis, and (or) provide corrective guidance. Failed to complete training documents.  Comments in training documents were insufficient to determine student’s status and did not reflect actual performance of student. Unfamiliar with or did not execute maneuvers according to the flight manual, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3 or AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Unfamiliar with and unable to effectively use available aircraft navigational systems.  Unable to satisfactorily determine position when map reading.  Did not recognize checkpoints or turn points. Consistently deviated from planned course.  Unable to adjust for deviations in time and course. AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   39  Complied with AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3 and AFTTP 3-3.H-1, planning guidance—used proper symbols, appropriately posted route for flight tracking, etc.  Effectively managed all resources (time, fuel, etc.) applicable to mission execution. a. Dead Reckoning. Able to use the principles of time, distance, and heading to determine aircraft position, navigation, and destination. b. Contour Navigation. Remained within route or area boundaries.  Effectively used terrain to determine route, altitude, groundspeed, and aircraft masking. c. Low-Level Navigation. Able to use the principles of time, distance, and heading to determine aircraft position, navigation, and destination.  Remained within route or area boundaries.  Effectively used terrain for masking if available.   40  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 Minor deviations from Q criteria.  Arrived at the target within +/-5 minutes. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver/mission effectiveness. Major deviations from Q criteria. Aircraft control was erratic or unsafe. Failed to confirm or compute TOLD. 35  Low-Level Operations: (P) Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers according to the flight manual, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3 and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements during approach, hovering, and takeoff.  Thoroughly aware of power requirements and limitations. Gave proper consideration and made use of terrain features and wind conditions. If not flying, closely monitored aircraft systems, instruments, and aircraft flight path and position. a. En Route. Chose and flew an effective route, altitude, and checkpoints and turn points. Flew above the minimum altitude and in an established low-level area. b. Terminal Operations. Arrived at target within +2 minutes. Developed an appropriate plan.   Was able to adapt to unforeseen circumstances or contingencies. Low-Level Operations: Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate Minor deviations from Q criteria. Minor errors with Major deviations from Q criteria. Failed to provide clear, concise, AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   41  (FE) 36  Formation (P) maneuvers according to the flight manual, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3 and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during approaches, landings, and departures.  Confirms TOLD and is thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations.  Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy. Familiar with and complied with formation procedures, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3 and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Established appropriate formations. Positive control of flight or element. Smooth on the controls and had proper wingman considerations.  Planned ahead and made timely decisions. a. En Route. Maintained position with only momentary deviations. Made smooth and immediate position corrections. Used radio and visual signals properly.  Did not attempt a and positive direction during approaches and departures that affected safe and effective mission accomplishment.  Failed to confirm or compute TOLD or is unaware of power requirements/limitations.   communicating aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy.  Minor lapses in situational awareness of power requirements/limitations. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver/mission effectiveness. Somewhat unfamiliar with procedures or directives.  Occasionally rough on the controls. Made it difficult for the wingman to maintain position.  Did not always plan ahead and (or) was hesitant in making decisions.  Performed some deviations in procedures. Minor deviations in lost visual procedures and was slow to rejoin.  Was slow to provide lost visual or rejoin instructions. Instructions were vague or unclear.  Varied position considerably.  Overcontrolled. Unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Did not establish appropriate formations. Rough on the controls. Little consideration for wingman. Did not plan ahead or was indecisive. Major deviations in procedures. Did not provide adequate lost visual or rejoin instructions.  Instructions or executions were incorrect. Unable to maintain a formation position. Made abrupt position corrections.  Did not maintain safe separation.    42  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 maneuver that was not briefed. As lead, demonstrated wingman consideration. b. Lost Visual Procedures (Instrument Meteorological Conditions and Visual Meteorological Conditions).  Provided concise lost visual and rejoin instructions.  Correctly executed applicable actions. c. Rejoin. Able to make a smooth, timely join-up without excessive closure rate to the appropriate briefed position.  Correctly used visual or radio commands to rejoin. As lead, used no more than 15 degrees angle of bank (+5 degrees). As lead, maintained briefed airspeed (normally 80 KIAS +5). Maintained safe separation. d. Terminal Operations. Maintained position with only momentary deviations. Made smooth and immediate position corrections.  Maintained safe separation.  Maintained required AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   43  minimum separation during taxi. As lead, correctly maneuvered the flight into position for takeoff, established briefed power setting, and smoothly and correctly established climb . As wingman, maintained position. Formation (FE)  Was familiar with and 37  Remote Operations (P) ensured crew compliance with formation procedures and AFI 11-2UH/TH-1H, Volume 3 and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Knowledgeable about formation types and spacing required. Kept crew informed of wingman position throughout flight Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers according to the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1.  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements during approach, hovering, and takeoff.  Thoroughly aware of power requirements and limitations.  (TOLD was recomputed if necessary for gross weight or environmental changes.) Gave proper Was somewhat unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Allowed some deviations in procedures. Was slow to provide wingman positional calls to crew. Had minor unannounced losses of wingman without crew notification. Was unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Unable to identify appropriate formations. Made major deviations in procedures. Did not provide wingman positional calls to crew. Did not ensure safe formation separation. Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations or maneuver/mission effectiveness.  Missed minor factors pertinent to the approach, landing, or departure. Site evaluation not tailored to the situation or was excessively detailed and time consuming.  Confused or disorganized communication with crew. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Failed to consider significant details pertinent to the approach, landing, departure, or search procedure. Unable to clearly communicate with crew. Aircraft control was erratic or unsafe. Failed to verify TOLD was computed, and (or) an adequate power margin existed for the flight conditions.   44  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 consideration and made use of terrain features and wind conditions. If not flying, closely monitored aircraft systems, instruments, and aircraft flight path and position. Ensured aircraft clearance from obstacles. a. Site Evaluation.  Effectively assessed landing risk. Evaluated and communicated the landing area’s obstacles, size and topography, associated winds and turbulence, aircraft’s power available/required, and departure route. Maintained no lower than 300’ above the landing site and no lower than 100’ above highest obstacle (AHO) and a minimum of 50 KIAS during the high reconnaissance. Maintained a minimum of 50’ above highest obstacle (AHO) and 50 knots during the low reconnaissance. b. Approach and Landing. Performed a landing according to procedures outlined in the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   45  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements. Maintained a constant ground track and approach angle. Descent and deceleration were constant and even.  Maintained a constant heading during touchdown.  Maintained less than an 800-feet-per-minute rate of descent when below 40 KIAS.  Cleared all barriers by at least 10 feet.   c. Departure. Selected and performed takeoff according to procedures outlined in the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1, and commensurate with terrain, winds, barriers, available power, and takeoff restrictions.  Performed smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movements.  Maintained a constant ground track, obstacle clearance (10 feet minimum), and climbout angle. Made a smooth power application and acceleration above translational lift.  Aircraft was trimmed after a normal climb   46  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 was established and cleared barriers. d. Slope Operations. Correctly reviewed slope landing limitations described in the flight manual.  Did not exceed a 1-foot drift before touchdown and allowed no drift after skid contact with the ground. Heading remained within +5 degrees. Familiar and complied with procedures according to the flight manual and AFTTP 3-3.H-1. Confirmed required TOLD and is thoroughly aware of power requirements and limitations.  Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during recon-naissance, approaches, landings, and departures.  Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy. Familiar with NVG procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers according to the flight manual, AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, AFTTP 3-3.H-1 and AFMAN 11-217, Volume 3, Remote Operations (FE) 38  NVG Operations: (P/FE) Minor deviations from (Q) criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations or maneuver/mission effectiveness. Missed minor factors pertinent to the approach, landing, or departure. Confused or disorganized communication with crew.  Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Unable to clearly communicate with crew. Failed to compute or confirm TOLD or is unaware of power requirements and (or) limitations. Failed to provide clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches, landings, and departures.   Missed minor factors pertinent to the performance of the NVGs. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Accepted NVGs that endangered crew survival. Errors or omissions showed a total lack of knowledge of NVG AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   47  Supplemental Flight Information. a. Preflight. Correctly inventoried, inspected, and prepared all necessary equipment. Used the preflight checklist contained in the appropriate NVG T.O.  Completed task before departing for the aircraft. Did not accept substandard equipment. b. Limitations. Correctly described the limitations for visual acuity and for operations. c. Malfunctions. Familiar with the listed malfunctions according to NVG directives.  Recognized malfunctions.  Executed proper actions at the occurrence of a malfunction. d. Employment. Complied with guidance in AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, while using NVGs. Correctly determined new heading +10 degrees.  Correctly determined estimated time en route (ETE) (+2 minutes) and distance to diversion point. Determined 39  Navigation Divert (P/FE) limitations.  Missed minor factors pertinent to heading, distance, timing, fuel, and (or) weight. Had confused or disorganized communication with crew. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures.  Committed to a mission that endangered crew survival. Excessive delay in computations   48  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 resulted in inability to accomplish mission. ETE from the diversion point to nearest recovery base +2 minutes. Correctly determined fuel requirement +100 pounds and loiter time +5 minutes. Correctly analyzed and determined if mission could be accomplished, to include payload capability at arrival to destination point.  Accomplished mission without undue delay. Adapted available resources to changing situations.  BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   49  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoD Instruction 7730.57, Aviation Incentive Pays and Continuation Bonus Program, 12 August 2008 AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, 19 January 2012 AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure, 19 January 2012 AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, TH-1H Helicopter Operations Procedures, 2 July 2010 AFI 11-2TH-1H, Volume 3, CL-1, Crew Briefing Guides and Checklists, 27 Jun 2008 AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 September 2010 AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010 AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008 AFMAN 11-217, Volume 3, Supplemental Flight Information, 23 February 2009 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-3.H-1 Combat Aircraft Fundamentals H-1, 4 January 2010 TO 1H-1(T)H-1, Flight Manual, USAF Series TH-1H Helicopter, 29 Jun 2012 TO 1H-1(T)H-1 CL-1 Pilot’s Flight Crew Checklist, TH-1H Helicopter, 29 Jun 2012 Prescribed Form AF Form 4104, TH-1H Flight Evaluation Worksheet Adopted Forms/IMTs AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification AF IMT 70, Pilot’s Flight Plan and Flight Log AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AF IMT 1381, USAF Certification of Air Crew Training AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications DD Form 175-1, Flight Weather Briefing Abbreviations and Acronyms AGL—above ground level AHO—above highest obstacle ATC—air traffic control ATD—Aircrew Training Device   50  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014 CRM—cockpit/crew resource management EF—Evaluator Flight Engineer EPE—emergency procedures evaluation ETE—estimated time en route ETL—effective translational lift FE—flight engineer (Career Enlisted Aviator) FLIP—flight information publication ILS—instrument landing system INIT MSN—initial mission IOS—Instructor Operating System IP—instructor pilot KIAS—knots indicated airspeed MAJCOM—major command MDA—minimum descent altitude MSN—mission NAVAID—navigational aid NDB—nondirectional beacon nm—nautical mile NVG—night vision goggles OPR—office of primary responsibility P—Pilot (all inclusive) PAR—precision approach radar psi—pounds per square inch REQUAL—requalification rpm—revolutions per minute Stan/Eval—standardization/evaluation T.O.—technical order TOLD—takeoff and landing data VFR—visual flight rules Vne—velocity never to exceed WST—Weapons Systems Trainer  AFI11-2TH-1HV2  10 JANUARY 2014   51  Attachment 2 TH-1H BOLDFACE EMERGENCY PROCEDURES ENGINE FAILURE AUTOROTATE EMER GOV OPNS  ENGINE OVERSPEED COLLECTIVE – INCREASE THROTTLE – REDUCE EMER GOV OPNS  MAIN DRIVESHAFT FAILURE AUTOROTATE EMER SHUTDOWN  ENGINE FIRE – START START SWITCH – PRESS THROTTLE – OFF FUEL SWITCHES – OFF  FLIGHT CONTROL SERVO HARDOVER HYD CONT SWITCH – SELECT OPPOSITE POSITION LAND AS SOON AS POSSIBLE  COMPLETE LOSS OF TAIL ROTOR THRUST (UNCONTROLLABLE) AUTOROTATE THROTTLE – FLIGHT IDLE  