Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-3021 October 1995OperationsAIR FORCE READY RESERVE STIPENDPROGRAM (PA)COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ ARPC/SGX  (Mr. Robert W. Anderson) Supersedes AFR 45-28, 14 August 1992.Certified by: HQ USAF/RE (Brig Gen Bradley)Pages: 5Distribution: FThis instruction implements Air Policy Directive 10-3, Air Reserve Components Force. It provides guide-lines and procedures for the Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program (AFRRSP).  The purpose of theAFRRSP is to obtain critical wartime medical specialists for the Air National Guard (ANG) and theUnited States Air Force Reserve (USAFR).  This instruction requires collecting and maintaining informa-tion subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8359 and E.O. 9397. System of recordsF045 ARPC A applies.  This Air Force Instruction (AFI) is applicable to the Air National Guard.SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis is the first publication of AFI 10-302.  It includes the possibility of stipend recoupment under 10USC 2005.  No other significant changes were made.1. Eligibility Requirements. All applicants must be United States citizens.1.1. Physicians and nurses in critical specialties are eligible for this program if they:1.1.1. Are graduates of a school of medicine or osteopathy, or have a minimum of 2 years at aNational League of Nursing (NLN) accredited school.1.1.2. Meet the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2005, Appointment in Commis-sioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in Professional Categories--Reserve of the AirForce and the United States Air Force (Temporary).1.1.3. Are enrolled, or accepted for enrollment, in a physician residency, fellowship program, fulltime masters degree, or full time in the third or fourth year of a  NLN accredited  Bachelor of Sci-ence in Nursing (BSN) degree program in the United States or Puerto Rico.  This program must beacceptable to the Air Force Surgeon General. This professional training program must lead toqualification in a critical wartime specialty.1.1.4. ANG physicians must be concurrently a drilling member of an ANG medical squadron.1.2. Enlisted baccalaureate students in nursing or other health professions are eligible if they:1.2.1. Are enrolled, or accepted for full-time enrollment, in the third or fourth year of an NLNaccredited baccalaureate program in the United States or Puerto Rico.  The program must beacceptable to the Air Force Surgeon General.  This training program must lead to a degree in nurs-ing or other authorized health care profession in a critical wartime medical specialty.1.2.2. Meet the commissioning requirements in AFI 36-2005 upon completion of the health careprofession training program.NOTE:Civilian applicants will be enlisted in the Ready Reserve  in the grade of E-5, through an ANG/Reserverecruiter and will be awarded Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 4N031.2. Ineligible Criteria. Individuals are ineligible if they:2.1. Are currently receiving funding from any other federal government agency.  This rule does notapply to federal student loans, or  GI Bill recipients.2.2. Have any affiliation with an organization that would prevent satisfying the obligation incurred.2.3. Have an active duty service obligation in the Armed Forces.3. Application Procedures: Applicants:3.1. May request information and application requirements from either ANG/Reserve Medical Ser-vice Recruiter or HQ ARPC/SGX, 6760 E. Irvington Place #7000, Denver CO 80280-7000.3.2. Must submit the following documents:3.2.1. AF Form 3045, The Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program (AFRRSP) Contract.Its purpose is to identify the Department of the Air Force and the training program participant asparties to a written agreement.  This written agreement will include the terms of the training pro-gram, the obligation incurred by the participant, and the benefits to the participant.3.2.2. AF Form 3046, The Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program (AFRRSP) Certificateof Enrollment.  Its purpose is to certify enrollment of an applicant in a accredited professionaltraining program for critical wartime medical specialties. Programs must be approved by HQARPC/SGX.4. Contractual Information.  Terms of Agreement:4.1. The participant must complete the entire training program agreed to in the contract, unless soonerrelieved for the convenience of the government or elimination under paragraph 5.  Leaves of absenceduring the training program will require specific approval by HQ ARPC/SGX.4.2. When tendered, the applicant accepts an appropriate appointment or designation based on theindividual medical specialty.   Upon completion of the training program, the participant agrees to ful-fill the appropriate Reserve Service Obligation (RSO) as specified in the contract.24.3. The participant may be allowed to fulfill the RSO through extended active duty (EAD) in the AirForce with the concurrence of HQ ARPC/SG and HQ AFMPC/SG.4.4. Normally, the stipend eligibility will begin on the lst day of training after the date the contract isexecuted.4.5. The participant will be subject to the RSO requirements as specified in the contract and to activeduty in time of war or national emergency, as the law provides.4.6. In the event participant fails, voluntarily or because of misconduct, to fulfill the obligationsimposed by the contract, recoupment under 10 USC 2005 may be initiated.5. Elimination From the AFRRSP:5.1. HQ ARPC/SGX may eliminate a participant from the AFRRSP for the following reasons:5.1.1. Failure or refusal to meet academic, medical, administrative, or other standards of the train-ing program.5.2. Elimination from the AFRRSP does not necessarily mean the member will be separated from theAir Reserve Component.  Separation is in accordance with AFI 36-3209, Separation Procedures forAir National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.5.3. Stipend payments will stop when the training program is completed, the participant is eliminated,action is initiated to eliminate the participant or during authorized period of non-availability.6. HQ ARPC/SGX:6.1. Reviews and processes all AFRRSP applications.6.2. Maintains information on program participants in the personnel data system (PDS) and providequality control of PDS data.6.3. Coordinates with HQ USAF/REM and ANGRC/SG to determine quotas and ceilings for pro-gram participants, and to provide various reports as required.6.4. Coordinates with HQ AFMPC/DPMMU  to approve a participant’s request to fulfill the RSO (orremaining portion of the RSO) on EAD, rather than in the Ready Reserve.6.5. Coordinates with HQ ARPC/SGS on participant’s physical qualifications.6.6. Coordinates with HQ ARPC/SGP on participant’s course of study.6.7. Processes training program elimination actions.  Monitor training program progress and autho-rize training program extensions, when appropriate.6.8. Coordinates with other ARPC directorates to complete various actions, and including  pay, sepa-ration, promotion, reassignment and legal .6.9. Notifies participants, 6 months before graduation, that they must elect a training category, andensure they satisfy all obligations.6.10. Assists with obtaining a training attachment and facilitate attendance at Military Indoctrinationof Medical Service Officers (MIMSO).36.11. HQ ARPC/SGX  is the office of primary responsibility for the administration of program partic-ipants.7. Participants: Agree to complete AF Form 3047, Health Status Questionnaire.  It purpose is to gather health7.1.information.7.2. Agree to complete an annual health status questionnaire and obtain annual training report fromthe program director.7.3. Provide HQ ARPC/SGX copies of transcript, diploma, license or certificate upon graduation.7.4. Assigned to the 9027th Air Reserve Squadron will contact a recruiter 6 months before graduationfor assignment.8. Prescribed Forms.   AF Form 3046,  The Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program (AFRRSP)Certificate of Enrollment; AF Form 3045, The Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend (AFRRSP) Con-tract; AF Form 3047, The Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program (AFRRSP) Health StatusQuestionnaire.JOHN A. BRADLEY,  Brig Gen, USAFDeputy to the Chief of Air Force Reserve4Attachment 1GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMSAbbreviations and AcronymsAFI—Air Force InstructionAFMPC—Air Force Military Personnel CenterAFR—Air Force RegulationAFRRSP—Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend ProgramAFSC—Air Force Specialty CodeANG—Air National GuardARPC—Air Reserve Personnel CenterBSN—Bachelor of Science in NursingEAD—Extended Active DutyE.O.—Executive OrderJA—Judge AdvocateMIMSO—Military Indoctrination for Medical Service OfficersNLN—National League of NursingPDS—Personnel Data SystemREM—HQ USAF - Office of Air Force Reserve Command SurgeonRSO—Reserve Service ObligationSG—Surgeon GeneralUSAFR—United States Air Force ReserveU.S.C.—United States Code5