 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2T-6, VOLUME 2 21 APRIL 2015 Flying Operations  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY T-6A AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AETC/A3V  Supersedes:   AFI11-2T-6V2, 8 August 2013 Certified by: AF/A3O (Brig Gen Giovanni K. Tuck) Pages: 44   This  instruction  implements  AFPD  11-2,  Aircrew  Operations,  AFI  11-200,  Aircrew  Training, Standardization/Evaluation,  and  General  Operations  Structure,  and  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2, Aircrew  Standardization/Evaluation  Program.  It  establishes  procedures  and  criteria  for evaluation of all aircrews performing duties in the T-6A aircraft. Requests for waivers must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver authority.  File a copy of all  approved  waivers  with  this  instruction.  This  AFI  applies  to  all  active  duty  and  Air  Force Reserve Command pilots and all Air National Guard associate instructor pilots flying the T-6A.  Forward  proposed  major  command  (MAJCOM)-level  supplements  to  this  volume  through AETC/A3V  to  AF/A3OI  for  approval  prior  to  publication  according  to  AFI  11-200.  After approval  and  publication,  send  copies  of  MAJCOM-level  supplements  to  AETC/A3V.  Field units  below  MAJCOM  level  will  forward  copies  of  their  supplements  to  AETC/A3V  for coordination prior to publication. See paragraph 1.2 for guidance on submitting comments and suggesting  improvements  to  this  AFI.  This  publication  requires  the  collection  and  or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and  or  maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  Title  37  United  States  Code, Section 301a, and Executive Order 9397 as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to  Federal  Agency  Use of  Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. System of records notice F011  AF  XO  A,  Aviation  Resource  Management  System  (ARMS),  applies.    Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   2  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  implements  Tier  waiver  authorities  IAW  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management.  CRM skills evaluation guidance updated (2.1.2);  FCP/RCP evaluation guidance updated (2.6.2)  Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION    1.1. Conducting Evaluations.   ........................................................................................  1.2. Recommended Changes and Waivers:   ...................................................................  1.3. Procedures:  .............................................................................................................  1.4. Grading Instructions:   .............................................................................................  Table  1.1. General Evaluation Criteria.   ..................................................................................  1.5. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE).  .............................................................  Table  1.2. Evaluation Criteria.   ................................................................................................  1.6. Completion of AF Form 8:   ....................................................................................  Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS    2.1. Evaluations Guidelines:   .........................................................................................  Table  2.1. Pilot Evaluations Requirements.   ............................................................................  2.2. Pilot Instrument/Qualification Evaluation.   ............................................................  2.3. Pilot Mission Evaluation:   .......................................................................................  2.4. Formal Course Evaluation.   ....................................................................................  2.5. Instructor Evaluation:   ............................................................................................  2.6. Evaluation Criteria:   ................................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION     3 3 3 3 3 4 4 5 34 35 35 35 40 41 41 41 42 43 AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   3  Chapter 1 GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1.  Conducting  Evaluations.  All  evaluations  will  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  the provisions of AFI 11-202, Volume 2, and this instruction. (T-2). 1.2.  Recommended Changes and Waivers: 1.2.1.  Submit suggested changes to this AFI via AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of  Publication,  to  the  parent  MAJCOM  through  standardization/evaluation  channels.  (T-2). (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.) 1.2.2.  AF/A3 is approval authority for changes or revisions to this instruction. 1.2.3.  Except  as  specified  elsewhere  in  this  instruction,  and  IAW  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2, AETC/A2/3/10  is  the  waiver  authority  for  aircrew  requirements  in  this  instruction.  Waiver requests will be submitted in message or memorandum format through the stan/eval chain of command. 1.3.  Procedures: 1.3.1.  Flight  examiners  (FE)  will  use  the  evaluation  criteria  contained  in  Chapter  2  for conducting  flight  and  emergency  procedure  evaluations  (EPE).  To  ensure  standard  and objective  evaluations,  FEs  must  become  thoroughly  familiar  with  the  prescribed  evaluation criteria. (T-2) 1.3.2.  Unless otherwise specified, the examinee will fly in the seat that best enables the FE to conduct a thorough evaluation. 1.3.3.  Prior to the flight, the FE will brief the examinee on the purpose of the evaluation and how  it  will  be  conducted.  The  examinee  accomplishes  required  flight  planning  during  the evaluation  and  furnishes  the  FE  a  copy  of  necessary  mission  data,  mission  materials,  and maps (as required). (T-2) 1.3.4.  Areas  required  by  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2,  are  indicated  in  Chapter  2  of  this  AFI. When it is impossible to evaluate a required area in flight, it will be evaluated by an alternate method  (ex:  simulator,  cockpit  procedure  trainer  [CPT]  or  oral  evaluation)  to  complete  the evaluation. The alternate method of evaluation will be documented in the examiner’s remarks in the Comments block of the AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification. (T-2). 1.3.5.  The FE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the flight. This debrief will include the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than qualified), and  any  required  additional  training.  (T-2).A  squadron  supervisor  must  be  debriefed  on  all evaluations. (T-2). Additionally, he or she must attend the debrief if the overall grade is Q-3.  (T-2). 1.4.  Grading Instructions: 1.4.1.  Tolerances  in  performance  parameters  are  based  on  conditions  of  smooth  air  and  a stable  aircraft.  Momentary  deviations  from  tolerances  will  not  be  considered  in  grading,   4  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 provided  the  examinee  applies  prompt  corrective  action  and  such  deviations  do  not jeopardize flying safety. Consider cumulative deviations when determining the overall grade. 1.4.2.  Compare  examinee  performance  for  each  area  accomplished  during  the  evaluation with the standards provided in this AFI and assign an appropriate grade for the area. (T-2). Derive the overall flight evaluation grade (Q-1, Q-2, or Q-3) from the area grades, based on a composite  for  the  observed  events  and  tasks  according  to  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2,  and  this AFI.  (T-2). 1.4.3.  FEs  will  use  the  grading  criteria  in  Tables  1.1  and  1.2  to  determine  individual  area grades. (T-2).  FE judgment must be exercised when the wording of areas is subjective and specific situations are not covered. 1.4.4.  If  the  examinee  receives  an  unqualified  area  grade  in  any  of  the  critical  areas identified in this AFI, an overall grade of Q-3 will be assigned.  (T-2). 1.4.5.  FE judgment will be the determining factor in arriving at the overall grade. 1.4.6.  Use the following grading criteria on all evaluations to grade individual items: 1.4.6.1.  Q.  The  examinee’s  performance  is  correct,  quickly  recognizing  and  correcting errors. 1.4.6.2.  Q-.  The  examinee’s  performance  is  safe,  but  with  limited  proficiency,  making errors of omission or commission. 1.4.6.3.  U.  The examinee’s performance is unsafe, lacking knowledge or ability. 1.4.7.  The general evaluation criteria in Table 1.1 for basic aircraft control apply during all phases of flight (except as noted for specific events and instrument final approaches).  (T-2). Table 1.1.  General Evaluation Criteria. I T E M    Q    Q-    U 1  Altitude ± 150 feet Altitude ± 300 feet Exceeded Q- limits 2  Airspeed ± 10 KIAS Airspeed ± 20 KIAS 3  Course ± 5 degrees/3 nautical miles (nm) (whichever is greater) Course ± 10 degrees/5 nm (whichever is greater) 4  Arc ± 2 nm Arc ± 3 nm    1.5.  Emergency  Procedures  Evaluation  (EPE).  If  available  and  configured  appropriately,  a flight  simulator  may  be  used  to  conduct  the  requisite  EPE  for  the  instrument/qualification evaluation.  If a simulator is not used, the EPE may be given orally.  The EPE must be conducted by a flight examiner. (T-2). 1.5.1.  The following items will be included on EPEs: AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   5  1.5.1.1.  Aircraft general knowledge.  (T-2). 1.5.1.2.  Emergency  procedures.  Evaluate  all  boldface  procedures  and  at  least  one emergency procedure per phase of flight.  (T-2). 1.5.1.3.  Unusual attitude recoveries.  (T-2). 1.5.1.4.  At least one approach and use of standby or emergency instruments.  (T-2). 1.5.1.5.  Alternate  or  divert  airfields.  Evaluate  at  least  one  approach  at  other  than  home base.  (T-2). 1.5.2.  For  EPEs  graded  “Q”  with  additional  training,  the  FE  will  indicate  whether  the additional  training  must  be  accomplished  before  the  next  flight.  Additional  training  and reevaluations will be accomplished in accordance with (IAW) AFI 11-202, Volume 2. (T-2) Table 1.2.  Evaluation Criteria. ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U PREFLIGHT 1 Area 1.  Mission Planning. 2 Area 2. Mission Briefing:  a. Organization. Developed a plan to complete all mission requirements in a timely manner and IAW all applicable directives. Was aware of alternatives available if flight couldn’t be completed as planned. Read and initialed all items in the flight crew information file (FCIF) or read files. Was prepared at briefing time. Briefing was well organized with a logical sequence. Finished in time to allow for element or crew briefing (if applicable) and preflight of personal equipment and aircraft. Made minor errors or omissions that did not detract from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities or approved operating procedures or rules in some areas. Made major errors or omissions that would have prevented a safe or effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not review or initial FCIF. Was not prepared at briefing time. Events were out of sequence, hard to follow, and some were redundant. Gave a confusing presentation. Did not allow time for element or crew briefing (if applicable) and preflight of personal equipment and aircraft.   6  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 3 b. Presentation. 4 c. Mission Coverage. 5 Area 3.  Ground Operations. Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U Clearly defined mission requirements/goals. Effectively used training aids. Ensured cockpit/crew resource management (CRM) objectives were clearly understood. Solicited questions and comments. Established objectives for the mission. Presented all events and technique discussion for accomplishing the mission. Established and adhered to station, start engine, taxi, and takeoff times to assure thorough preflight, check of personal equipment, etc. Accurately determined readiness of aircraft for flight. Performed all checks and procedures prior to takeoff IAW approved checklists and applicable directives. Did not make effective use of available training aids. Dwelled on nonessential mission items. Did not use training aids. Briefing was redundant throughout. Lost interest of flight members. Presentation created doubts or confusion. Omitted some minor training events. Had limited discussion of techniques. Made minor procedural deviations that did not detract from mission effectiveness. Did not establish objectives for the mission. Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Omitted major checklist items. Major deviations in procedure would have prevented safe mission accomplishment. Failed to accurately determine readiness of aircraft for flight. Errors directly contributed to a late takeoff that degraded the mission or made it ineffective. 6 Area 4.  Takeoff. GENERAL Maintained smooth aircraft control throughout takeoff. Maintained runway alignment ± 10 feet during takeoff. Rotated Made minor procedural deviations that did not detract from the takeoff. Control was rough or erratic. Runway Takeoff was potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft or systems limitations. Raised gear or flaps too early AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-   7   U - 0 to + 10 knots of calculated rotation speed. Retracted gear and flaps after safely airborne and prior to exceeding aircraft limits. 7 Area 5. Departure.  Executed departure as published or directed and complied with all restrictions. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to navigate, using appropriate navigation procedures. Ensured NAVAIDs were properly tuned, identified, and Minor errors in procedures or use of navigation equipment. Some deviations in tuning, identifying, and monitoring NAVAIDs.  Slow to update changes to Major errors in procedures or use of navigation equipment. Could not establish position. Failed to recognize checkpoints or adjust for deviations in time alignment was  ± 25 feet. Rotated  - 0 to + 15 KIAS of calculated rotation speed. Minor deviations in airspeed and navigation occurred during completion of departure. Was intermittent throughout sortie. Was slow to take actions to reduce possible conflicts. or too late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude. Over-controlled aircraft, resulting in excessive deviations from intended flight path. Failed to comply with published or directed departure instructions. Clearing was inadequate, and actions were not taken to reduce possible conflicts. Level off was erratic. Was slow in establishing proper cruise airspeed. Level off was erratic. Had excessive delay or failed to establish proper cruise airspeed. Failed to reset altimeter as required. Recognized actual and potential conflicts and adjusted aircraft performance to safely avoid those conflicts. Effectively used accepted clearing techniques and employed radios and Naval Aircraft Collision Warning System (NACWS) and TAS to aid in clearing. Level off was smooth. Promptly established proper cruise airspeed. 8 Area 6. Clearing. 9 Area 7.  Level off. 10 Area 8.  Cruise/Navigation.   8  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 11 Area 9. In-Flight Checks. 12 Area 10.  In-Flight Planning/Area Orientation. monitored.  GPS used IAW AFMAN 11-217, Instrument Flight Procedures; GPS flight plan was accurate. Complied with clearance instructions. Was aware of position at all times. Remained within the confines of assigned airspace. Completed all checklist items correctly and at the proper point in the mission. clearance in GPS flight plan (if used).  Was slow to comply with clearance instructions. Had some difficulty in establishing exact position and course. Same as Q except for minor deviations or omissions during checks that did not detract from mission accomplishment. and course. Did not remain within the confines of assigned airspace. Exceeded parameters for Q-. Did not perform in-flight checks or monitor systems to the degree that an emergency condition would have developed if allowed to continue uncorrected. Made errors in fuel management procedures that did not prevent mission accomplishment. Was slow to adjust mission profile for time or fuel limitations, weather, and area limits. Failed to monitor fuel status or comply with established fuel requirements. Poor fuel management prevented mission accomplishment. Exceeded area boundaries. Actively monitored fuel throughout the mission and complied with all established fuel requirements. Adhered to briefed joker / bingo fuels. Adjusted mission profile to comply with time or fuel limitations, weather, and area limits. Remained within area boundaries with or without ground references and used assigned airspace efficiently. 13 Area 11. Communication/ Transponder Able to understand and prioritize multiple radio transmissions. Occasional deviations from procedures required Incorrect procedures or poor performance caused confusion and AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Procedures. 14 Area 12.  Crew Coordination/ Flight Integrity. Grading Criteria  Q  Q- retransmissions or resetting of codes. Slow to initiate (or missed) some required calls. Made minor errors or omissions that did not significantly detract from situational awareness or mission accomplishment. Transmissions were not in proper sequence or used nonstandard terminology. Communication was sometimes unclear or confusing, but did not significantly impact mission accomplishment or flight safety. Crew coordination was adequate to accomplish the mission. Deficiencies in crew communication or interaction resulted in degraded crew or mission efficiency. Correctly formulated timely and accurate responses, using proper terminology. Complied with and acknowledged all required instructions. All required radio calls (to include use of PMSV/ATIS) made IAW directives. Intercockpit and/or interflight communication was clear and concise. All visual signals performed correctly and IAW directives. Used appropriate transponder procedures IAW directives. Provided direction and information when necessary. Effectively coordinated with other crewmember through-out the mission. Focused crew attention on task at hand. Solicited inputs from other crew member, formation member, or outside agency when appropriate.   9   U jeopardized mission accomplishment. Omitted (or missed) numerous required radio calls. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from situational awareness, threat warning, or mission accomplishment. Unclear or confusing intercockpit or interflight communication significantly impacted mission accomplishment or flight safety. Poor crew coordination seriously degraded mission accomplishment or safety of flight. 15 Area 13.  Risk Management/ Decision-Making. Accurately identified contingencies and alternatives. Gathered and cross-checked available data before deciding. Clearly Made minor errors in identifying contingencies, gathering data, or communicating a decision that did not Improperly or ineffectively identified contingencies, gathered data, or communicated a   10  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 16 Area 14.  Task Management. 17 Area 15. Debriefing. 18 Area 16. Airmanship (Critical). 19 Area 17.  Safety (Critical). stated decisions and ensured they were understood. affect safe or effective mission accomplishment. decision that seriously degraded mission accomplishment or safety of flight. Correctly prioritized and managed multiple tasks based on existing and new information that assured mission success. Made minor errors in prioritization or management of tasks that did not affect safe or effective mission accomplishment. Incorrectly prioritized or managed tasks that seriously degraded mission accomplishment or safety of flight. Performed a limited debriefing. Did not thoroughly discuss performance in relationship to mission objectives. Did not debrief all deviations. NOTE: Because this area is critical, Q- is not applicable. NOTE: Because this area is critical, Q- is not applicable. Thoroughly debriefed applicable portions of the mission. Compared mission results with briefed objectives and debriefed deviations. Offered corrective guidance as appropriate Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. Was aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft operation and mission accomplishment. Did not debrief mission deviations or offer corrective guidance. Poor decisions resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned mission. Demonstrated poor judgment that compromised safety. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe operation or mission accomplishment. Operated the aircraft in a dangerous manner. Knowingly violated established procedures or flight restrictions. AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 20 Area 18. Aircrew Discipline (Critical). 21 Area 19. Situational Awareness (Critical). Grading Criteria  Q  Q-   11   U NOTE: Because this area is critical, Q- is not applicable. NOTE: Because this area is critical, Q- is not applicable. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated flight restrictions or established procedures. Misanalysis of flight conditions and failure to prioritize compromised safety or mission accomplishment. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all phases of the mission. Accurately analyzed flight conditions to minimize effects of adverse factors and capitalized on opportunities. Maintained fuel awareness and planned and/or acted in a timely manner to ensure safe mission accomplishment. Never exceeded the capability to safely control the aircraft. Prioritization of flight requirements assured mission success. 22 Area 20.  Traffic Pattern Stalls. CONTACT Recognized approach-to-stall indications and recovered properly IAW AFMAN 11-248, T-6 Primary Flying. Delayed recovery beyond the aerodynamic buffet or artificial stall warning. Late to recognize secondary stall. Failed to recognize stall indications. Misapplied flight control and power control lever (PCL) inputs in a manner that aggravated the stalled condition and resulted in excessive altitude loss. Exceeded aircraft limits. 23 Area 21. Power-On Stalls. Properly recovered after fully developed stall IAW AFMAN 11-Did not allow stall to fully develop. Late to recognize secondary Misapplied flight control and PCL inputs, resulting in   12  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 248. stall. 24 Area 22. Power-Off/ ELP Stalls. Recognized approach-to-stall indications and recovered properly IAW AFMAN 11-248. Delayed recovery beyond the aerodynamic buffet or artificial stall warning. Late to recognize secondary stall. excessive altitude loss. Did not recognize secondary stall and did not recover properly. Exceeded aircraft limits. Failed to recognize stall indications. Misapplied flight control inputs in a manner that aggravated the stalled condition and resulted in excessive altitude loss. Exceeded aircraft limits. 25 26 27 28 Area 23.  Slow Flight. Area 24.  Recovery From Spin Airspeed - 0 to + 5 KIAS of desired airspeed. Airspeed - 5 to + 10 KIAS of desired airspeed. Maintained deviations in excess of Q- criteria. Recovered to level flight with minimum altitude loss. If secondary stall was entered, compiled with stall recognition and recovery procedures. Was slow to recognize aircraft departure and/or make necessary flight control inputs. Delayed initiation of spin recovery procedures. Performed improper execution of spin recovery procedures. Area 25.  Stability Demonstration. Recognized required aircraft control inputs to prevent entering a stall or spin. Set pitch attitude too high or too low. Maneuver effectiveness was degraded. Maintained deviations in excess of Q- criteria. Areas 26-28.  Nose-Low, Nose-High, and Inverted Recoveries. Recovered to level flight expeditiously without stalling or exceeding aircraft limitations and with minimum altitude loss. Was slow to analyze attitude or erratic in recovery to level flight. Was slow to recognize or use the proper power setting Failed to correctly analyze attitude and execute appropriate recovery. Used improper power setting and AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-   13   U 29 30 31 Area 29. Aerobatics. (Perform aerobatic maneuvers to include:  - chandelle - lazy eight - barrel roll - aileron roll  - cloverleaf - loop - Immelmann - cuban eight - split S.) Area 30.  Letdown and Traffic Entry. Area 31.  Normal Pattern/ Landing (Overhead). (Includes takeoff and landing flap positions.) and configuration. configuration. Entry parameters were not met and energy levels were not adequate to properly accomplish maneuver. Aircraft control during maneuvers was adequate, but not smooth and positive. Minor procedural deviations occurred. Significantly missed entry parameters. Maneuvers were not flown IAW directives. Aircraft control was erratic, causing unsatisfactory accomplishment of maneuvers. Exceeded aircraft limit. Maneuvers were smooth, positive, coordinated, and flown IAW all applicable directives. Attained proper entry parameters prior to beginning the maneuver and placed emphasis on use of outside references. Maneuvers were planned and flown to remain within area boundaries. Performed letdown as published or directed and complied with all restrictions and directives. Minor deviations in airspeed and navigation occurred during completion of letdown. Failed to comply with published or directed letdown instructions or directives. Exceeded Q- criteria. Configuration was improper. Properly analyzed pattern winds. Maintained pattern altitude ± 100 feet and 120 KIAS minimum prior to the final turn. Performed break between approach end and 3,000 feet down the runway. Maintained air-speed ± 10 KIAS on initial. Aircraft properly configured prior to starting the final turn. Final turn and final airspeed  - 0 to + 10 KIAS, and no slower than on speed AOA. Misanalysis of pattern winds resulted in loose or tight downwind or long or short final. Maintained pattern altitude ± 200 feet prior to the final turn. Improper power setting resulting in airspeed <120 KIAS minimum on inside downwind.  Performed pattern break outside the proper zone. Maintained airspeed ± 20 KIAS on initial. Final turn and final airspeed - 5 to + 15   14  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 32 Area 32.  Normal Pattern/Landing (Straight-In). (Includes takeoff and landing flap positions) 33 Area 33.  No-Flap Traffic Pattern/Landing. (Includes overhead and straight-in no-flap pattern/landing.) Maintained proper runway alignment and touchdown speed was  - 5 to + 10 KIAS, in the AFMAN 11-248 prescribed landing zone. Braking was smooth and effective. Aircraft properly configured prior to starting down final. Airspeed on final  - 0 to + 10 KIAS, and no slower than on speed angle of attack (AOA). Maintained proper runway alignment, touch-down speed was - 5 to + 10 KIAS in the AFMAN 11-248 prescribed landing zone. Braking was smooth and effective.  Properly analyzed pattern winds. Maintained pattern altitude ± 100 feet and 120 KIAS minimum prior to the final turn. Performed break between approach end and 3,000 feet down the runway. Maintained air-speed ± 10 KIAS on initial. Aircraft properly configured prior to starting the final turn. Final turn and final KIAS. Touchdown speed was - 5 to + 15 KIAS and slightly outside the AFMAN 11-248 prescribed landing zone, but safe. Ineffective braking resulted in an increased landing roll. Was late configuring aircraft. Airspeed on final - 5 to + 15 KIAS. Touchdown speed was - 5 to + 15 KIAS and slightly outside the AFMAN 11-248 prescribed landing zone, but safe. Ineffective braking resulted in an increased landing roll. Misanalysis of pattern winds resulted in loose or tight downwind or long or short final. Maintained pattern altitude ± 200 feet prior to the final turn. Improper power setting resulting in airspeed <120 KIAS minimum on inside downwind.  Performed pattern break outside the proper zone. Exceeded Q- criteria. Could not have landed safely. Touchdown point would not have allowed for safe stopping on available runway. Configuration was improper. Exceeded aircraft limits.  Exceeded Q- criteria. Could not have landed safely. Touchdown point would not have allowed for safe stopping on available runway. Configuration was improper. Exceeded aircraft limits. AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 34 Area 34. Emergency Landing Pattern (ELP)/Landing. Grading Criteria  Q  Q- airspeed  - 0 to + 10 KIAS, and no slower than on speed AOA. Maintained proper runway alignment and touchdown speed was  - 5 to + 10 KIAS, in the AFMAN 11-248 prescribed landing zone. Braking was smooth and effective. Complied with all flight manual and operational procedures. Maintained safe maneuvering airspeed. Flew an approach compatible with the situation. Used sound judgment. Configured at the appropriate position or altitude. Had smooth, positive control of aircraft. Touchdown point permitted safe stopping in available runway. Maintained airspeed ± 20 KIAS on initial. Final turn and final airspeed - 5 to + 15 KIAS. Touchdown speed was - 5 to + 15 KIAS and slightly outside the AFMAN 11-248 prescribed landing zone, but safe. Ineffective braking resulted in an increased landing roll. Made minor procedural errors. Errors did not detract from safe handling of the situation. Configured at a position and altitude that allowed for a safe approach. Required unnecessary maneuvering due to minor errors in planning or judgment. Touchdown longer than desired, but permitted stopping in available runway.   15   U Made major deviations or did not comply with applicable procedures. Judgment was unsafe. Excessive maneuvering was required. Could not have landed safely. Touchdown point would not have allowed for safe stopping on available runway. Exceeded aircraft limits. 35 36 Area 35. DELETED Area 36. Go-Around. DELETED DELETED DELETED Initiated and performed a go-around promptly IAW operational procedures and directives. Was slow to self-initiate a go-around or procedural steps. Did not self-initiate a go-around when appropriate or when directed. Techniques were unsafe or incorrect procedures were applied. 37 Area 37.  Maintained proper Executed landing Exceeded Q- criteria.   16  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Touch-and-Go Procedures. 38 Area 38.  Closed Pattern. 39 Area 39.  Breakout and Reentry. 40 Area 40.  En Route Aircraft Control. Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U runway alignment and touchdown speed was  - 5 to + 10 KIAS, in the prescribed landing zone, but safe. Application of power, cross-check of engine instruments, and runway alignment during the takeoff phase was smooth and timely. Attained 140 KIAS minimum before start of pull-up. Maintained 140 KIAS during pull-up and 120 KIAS on downwind. Rolled out at pattern altitude  + 100 feet. Complied with published directives. Complied with all flight manual and operational procedures. Maintained safe maneuvering airspeed and altitude.  Application of power and cross-check of engine instruments and runway alignment was late during the takeoff phase.  Exceeded Q- criteria. phase with minor deviations. Touchdown speed was - 5 to + 15 KIAS, slightly outside the prescribed landing zone, but safe. Application of power, cross-check of engine instruments, and runway alignment during the takeoff phase was slow. Airspeed on inside downwind 120 KIAS, - 5 to + 15 KIAS. Altitude was ± 200 feet. Erratic airspeed and altitude control led to minor procedural errors. Errors did not detract from safe handling of the situation. Did not comply with applicable procedures. Erratic airspeed and altitude control compromised safety.  INSTRUMENTS Aircraft control was smooth and positive. Maintained air-speed  ± 10 KIAS, altitude  ± 150 feet, and heading ± 5 degrees of desired. Erratic aircraft control resulted in minor deviations. Maintained airspeed  ± 30 knots, altitude  ± 300 feet, and heading ± 10 degrees of desired. Exceeded Q- criteria. Consistently deviated from airspeed, altitude, and/or heading. AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 41 Area 41. Instrument Climb/Descent. Grading Criteria  Q  Q- Maintained smooth and positive aircraft control. Complied with appropriate directives and procedures.  Made minor deviations in procedure. Aircraft control was not smooth or positive, but adequate.    17   U Exceeded Q- criteria. Aircraft control was erratic.  Area 42.  Airspeed Change. Performed in a smooth and positive manner. Was slow to change airspeed when required. Failed to make directed or required airspeed changes. 42 43 Area 43.  Vertical S. 44 Area 44. Steep Turns. Exceeded Q- criteria. Failed to make appropriate corrections. Exceeded Q- criteria. Failed to make appropriate corrections. Aircraft control was smooth and positive. Maintained ± 200 feet VSI, airspeed  ± 10 KIAS, heading  ± 5 degrees, and ± 100 feet of desired level off altitude. Bank angle was ± 5 degrees. Erratic aircraft control resulted in minor deviations. Maintained ± 300 feet VSI, ± 20 KIAS and ± 200 feet of desired level off altitude. Bank angle was ± 10 degrees. Aircraft control was smooth and positive. Bank angle was ± 10 degrees. Maintained  ± 15 KIAS of desired airspeed. Altitude  ± 200 feet at 60-degree bank and ± 100 feet at 45-degree bank. Rollout heading ± 10 degrees at 45-degree bank and ± 15 degrees at 60-degree bank. Made minor deviations. Bank angle was ± 20 degrees. Maintained  ± 20 KIAS of desired airspeed. Altitude was ± 300 feet at 60-degree bank and  ± 200 feet at 45-degree bank. Rollout heading was ± 20 degrees at 45-degree bank and ± 30 at 60-degree bank. 45 Area 45.  Unusual Attitude Recoveries. Made expeditious recovery to level flight with minimum altitude loss and without stalling or exceeding aircraft limits. Slow to analyze attitude or erratic in recovery to level flight. Correct recovery procedures used. Was unable to determine attitude. Used improper recovery procedures. Exceeded aircraft limits. 46 Area 46.  Maneuver performed IAW directives. Made minor procedural deviations. Exceeded Q- criteria. Aircraft control was   18  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U erratic causing major deviations. Exceeded aircraft limits.  Exceeded Q- criteria. Aircraft control was erratic, causing major deviations. Exceeded Aircraft limits.  Exceeded Q- criteria. Aircraft control was not always smooth and positive, but adequate.  Made minor procedural deviations. Aircraft control was not always smooth and positive, but adequate.  Made frequent or large heading changes; reached fix  ± 2 miles using GPS navigation or ± 4 using VOR navigation. Wingover. Aircraft control was positive and smooth.  47 Area 47.  Aileron Roll. Maneuver performed IAW directives. Aircraft control was positive and smooth.  48 Area 48.  Fix to Fix. Correctly tuned, identified, and monitored NAVAID.  Set correct radial of desired fix in EHSI.  Turned in shorter direction to appropriate initial heading.  Loaded correct RNAV waypoint in GPS & proceeded direct to fix/waypoint.  Arrived ± 1 mile of desired fix using GPS navigation (or ± 3 miles using VOR navigation only). 49 Area 49. Holding.  Executed entry and holding IAW published procedures and directives. Stayed within ± 15 seconds (timing-defined pattern), ± 2 nm (VOR/DME, GPS distance defined pattern), and ± 2 minutes of EFC (if assigned) of holding pattern limit fix. Exceeded Q- criteria. Did not comply with published procedures and directives. Made minor errors that did not detract from safety. Stayed within ± 20 seconds (timing-defined pattern),  ± 3 nm (VOR/DME, GPS distance defined pattern), and ± 3 minutes of expect further clearance (EFC) (if assigned) of holding pattern limit fix. AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 50 Area 50. Penetration. (Initial approach fix to final approach fix/ descent point) 51 Area 51.  En Route Descent. 52 Areas 52. Intercept/Maintain Course. 53 Areas 53. Intercept/Maintain Arc. 54 Area 54.  ILS Approach. Grading Criteria  Q  Q-   19   U Performed the penetration and approach as published or directed and IAW the flight manual. Complied with all restrictions. Made smooth and timely corrections. Executed descent as directed. Complied with all restrictions. Remained position oriented. Complied with basic control standards. Established a valid intercept. Maintained course  ± 5 degrees.  Complied with basic control standards. Established valid arc or radial intercept. Maintained arc ± 2 nm. Executed approach as published IAW the flight manual. Made smooth and timely corrections to azimuth and glide slope to remain within one dot. Airspeed was - 0 to + 10 KIAS. Complied with decision height and position would have permitted a safe landing.  Performed penetration and approach with minor deviations. Complied with restrictions. Slow to make corrections. Performed the penetration and approach with major deviations. Made erratic corrections. Compromised safety. Executed descent as directed with minor deviations.  Maintained course  ± 10 degrees, not to exceed 5 miles.  Executed descent with major deviations. Did not comply with restrictions. Exceeded Q- criteria. Maintained arc  ± 3 nm. Exceeded Q- criteria. Exceeded Q- limits. Performed procedures with major deviations. Made erratic corrections. Did not comply with decision height or position at decision height would not have permitted a safe landing.  Minor deviations did not detract from the approach. Slow to make corrections or initiate procedures. Airspeed was  - 5 to + 15 KIAS and glide slope was within one dot low or two dots high. Azimuth was within two dots. Position at decision height would have permitted a safe landing.    20  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 55 Area 55. PAR Approach. 56 Areas 56. VOR Approach. Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U Exceeded Q- limits. Made major deviations and/or erratic corrections. Did not respond to controller instructions, resulting, in erratic glidepath and heading control. Proceeded below decision height and/or position would not have permitted a safe landing. Exceeded Q- limits. Did not comply with procedures or restrictions. Maintained steady-state flight below the MDA. Could not land safely from the approach.  Executed approach as published IAW the flight manual. Made smooth and timely response to controller instructions. Maintained glidepath with only minor deviations. Heading was ± 5 degrees of controller instructions, and airspeed was  - 0 to + 10 KIAS. Complied with decision height and position would have permitted a safe landing.  Adhered to all published or directed procedures and restrictions. Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA (+ 100 to - 0 feet) at or before VDP. Maintained airspeed -0 to + 10 KIAS and course was ± 1 dot width of course centerline at MAP. Position would have permitted a safe landing.  Minor deviations did detract from the approach. Slow response to controller’s instructions caused poor glidepath control, but never exceeded well above or below glidepath. Heading was ± 10 degrees of controller instruction and airspeed was - 5 to  + 15 KIAS. Position at decision height would have permitted a safe landing.  Executed approach with minor deviations. Arrived at MDA  (- 0 to + 150 feet) at or before the MAP, but past the VDP. Maintained airspeed  - 5 to + 15 KIAS and course was ± 2 dot width of course centerline at MAP. Position would have permitted a safe landing. 57 Areas 57.  Localizer Approach. Adhered to all published or directed procedures and restrictions. Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA (+ 100 to - 0 feet) at or Executed approach with minor deviations. Arrived at MDA  (- 0 to + 150 feet) at or before the MAP, but past the VDP. Maintained airspeed  Exceeded Q- limits. Did not comply with procedures or restrictions. Maintained steady-state flight below the MDA. Could not land AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-   21   U 58 Areas 58.  ASR Approach. 59 Areas 59.  GPS Approach. before VDP. Maintained airspeed - 0 to + 10 KIAS and less than one dot deflection. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Executed approach as published IAW the flight manual. Made smooth and timely response to controller instructions. Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA (+ 100 to - 0 feet) at or before VDP. Maintained airspeed - 0 to + 10 KIAS and heading was ± 5 degrees of controller instructions. Position would have permitted a safe landing.  Adhered to all published or directed procedures and restrictions. Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA (+ 100 to - 0 feet) at or before VDP. Maintained airspeed  - 0 to + 10 KIAS and course was ± 1 dot width of course centerline at MAP. Position would have permitted a safe landing. safely from the approach.  - 5 to + 15 KIAS and stayed within two dots deflection. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Executed approach with minor deviations. Arrived at MDA  (- 0 to + 150 feet) at or before the MAP, but past the VDP. Maintained airspeed  - 5 to + 15 KIAS and course was ± 10 degrees at MAP. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Exceeded Q- limits. Did not comply with procedures or restrictions. Did not respond to controller instruction. Maintained steady-state flight below the MDA. Could not land safely from the approach.  Exceeded Q- limits. Did not comply with procedures or restrictions. Did not respond to controller instruction. Maintained steady-state flight below the MDA. Could not land safely from the approach.  Executed approach with minor deviations. Arrived at MDA  (- 0 to + 150 feet) at or before the MAP, but past the VDP. Maintained airspeed  - 5 to + 15 KIAS and course was  ± 2 dot width of course centerline at MAP. Position would have permitted a safe landing.   22  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 60 Area 60.  Low Altitude Approach. 61 Area 61.  Circling Approach. 62 Area 62.  Missed Approach/ Climbout. 63 Area 63. Transition to Land/Landing. Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U Executed the approach as published or directed and IAW the flight manual. Complied with restrictions. Made smooth and timely corrections.  Executed approach IAW the flight manual and AFMAN 11-217, Volume 1. Maintained minimum recommended circling airspeed until established on final. Maintained circling minimums and VMC until acquisition of visual glidepath. Smoothly positioned the aircraft for a safe landing. Executed missed approach or climbout as published or directed IAW flight manual procedures. Smooth and timely transition based on computed visual descent point or where runway environment visually acquired. Maintained runway alignment and touch-Executed the approach with minor deviations. Complied with restrictions. Was slow to make corrections.  Executed the approach with major deviations. Made erratic corrections.  Aircraft control was not consistently smooth, but safe. Made minor deviations that did not detract from the approach. Maintained circling minimums and VMC until acquisition of visual glidepath. Runway displacement was adequate, but not optimum and did not require a missed approach. Executed missed approach or climbout with minor deviations. Was slow to comply with published procedures, controller’s instructions, or flight manual procedures. Slow transition led to a steeper-than-desired final, but appropriate corrections were made. Excessive power and pitch inputs resulted in a Approach not flown IAW the flight manual or AFMAN 11-217, Volume 1. Aircraft control was erratic. Failed to correct large deviations in airspeed or altitude. Displacement was not adequate to allow safely aligning with the landing runway and a missed approach was required. Executed missed approach or climbout with major deviations. Did not comply with applicable directives or procedures. Late transition or attempt to land in the “normal” landing zone led to an excessive “duck under.” Improper calculation of visual descent point or Grading Criteria  Q  Q- long or short landing. down speed was  - 5 to + 10 KIAS, 500 to 2,000 feet from the runway threshold.  FORMATION (GENERAL)   23   U excessively late transition prevented landing out of the approach. Exceeded Q- criteria.  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 64 Area 64. Formation Overhead Pattern/Landing. 65 Area 65.  Visual Signals. 66 Area 66.  Position Change. Misanalysis of pattern winds resulted in loose or tight downwind or long or short final. Maintained pattern altitude ± 200 feet and airspeed ± 20 KIAS. Executed pitchout outside the proper zone. Wingman did not maintain consistent spacing. Final turn and final airspeed - 5 to + 15 KIAS and touchdown speed - 5 to + 15 KIAS.  Lead properly analyzed pattern winds and placed wingman on proper side. Maintained pattern altitude  ± 100 feet and airspeed ± 10 KIAS. Executed pitchout IAW published or directed procedures. Wingman maintained a minimum of 3,000 feet spacing after pitchout. Final turn and final airspeed - 0 to + 10 KIAS and touchdown speed - 5 to + 10 KIAS. Maintained proper side of the runway and alignment on rollout. Signals were IAW AFI 11-205, Aircraft Cockpit and Formation Flight Signals, and clearly visible to wingman. Signals were IAW AFI 11-205, but not clearly visible to wingman. Signals were not IAW AFI 11-205 and unrecognizable to wingman. Lead was decisive and clearly directed position change while monitoring wingman position. Designated wingman moved smoothly to the directed position while Lead was slow to position the formation to facilitate the position change. Designated wingman was slow to move to the directed position or re-cognize less than Excessive time was taken to accomplish position change. Procedure was not conducted according to directives. Safety was compromised.   24  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 67 Area 67. Formation Takeoff. 68 Area 68.  Interval Takeoff. maintaining aircraft separation.  adequate aircraft separation. FORMATION LEAD Ensured wingman was on the proper side for existing conditions. Executed takeoff IAW published or briefed procedures. Maintained proper power setting and runway alignment ± 20 feet and smoothly established proper takeoff attitude. Ensured wingman was safely airborne prior to retracting gear or flaps, but did so before exceeding aircraft limits.  Executed takeoff IAW published or briefed procedures. Maintained runway alignment  ± 10 feet. Set or maintained proper takeoff attitude. Retracted gear or flaps after safely airborne but prior to exceeding aircraft limits. Proper power setting, smooth aircraft control, and effective communication facilitated a timely rejoin. Minor deviations occurred, but did not detract from the takeoff. Placed wingman on the wrong side for existing conditions. Slow to set proper power setting or takeoff attitude. Maintained proper side of run-way, but alignment drifted  ± 30 feet. Was inattentive to wingman’s position.  Minor deviations occurred, but did not detract from the takeoff. Maintained proper side of runway but alignment drifted ± 25 feet. Set and maintained proper takeoff attitude. Inattention to wingman’s position, lack of communication, and/or improper power setting delayed rejoin.  Exceeded Q- criteria. Major deviations occurred. Takeoff was potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits. Raised gear and/or flaps too early or late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude or power. Erratic aircraft control resulted in excessively delayed rejoin. 69 Areas 69-75. Executed mission Deviated slightly from  Exceeded Q- criteria.   25   U Maneuvered erratically, forcing wingman to breakout. Failed to monitor wingman’s position. Exceeded Q- criteria. Exceeded Q- criteria. AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q- Formation. (Perform two-ship formation mission profile as lead, to include  - departure  - fingertip - wingwork - echelon  - close trail - pitchout - rejoin.) 70 Area 76.  Fighting Wing. 71 Area 77.  Extended Trail Exercise. profile IAW published or briefed procedures. Maintained positive control of the flight and took timely action to correct discrepancies. Planned ahead and made timely decisions, completing the profile smoothly without exceeding wingman’s capabilities or degrading flight safety. Fingertip maneuvering up to 3 Gs and 90 degrees of bank. Complied with all maneuver parameters. Executed smoothly IAW published or briefed procedures. Monitored wingman position and maneuvered aircraft with good situational awareness. Executed smoothly IAW published or briefed procedures. Monitored wingman position and maneuvered aircraft with good situational awareness and energy level. procedures. Did not take positive control of the flight. Excessive maneuvering made it difficult for wingman to maintain position. Did not always plan ahead and/or hesitated in making decisions. Poor decisions delayed mission accomplishment or degraded training. Was inattentive to wingman’s position.  Poor in-flight decisions delayed mission accomplishment or degraded training. Rough control inputs made it difficult for wingman to maintain position. Did not always plan ahead.  Some minor deviations occurred. Poor in flight decisions delayed mission accomplishment or degraded training. Rough control inputs made it difficult for wingman to maintain position. Did not always plan ahead   26  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 72 Area 78. Descent and Traffic Entry. 73 Area 79. Formation Approach. 74 Area 80. Formation Landing. Failed to comply with published or directed instructions. Failed to monitor wingman’s position. Performed major deviations in procedures. Did not execute approach as published or directed. Did not monitor wingman’s position or configuration. Placed wingman in unsafe situation. Flight could not land from approach. Exceeded Q- criteria. Did not monitor wingman’s position or configuration. Placed wingman in unsafe situation.  Executed descent and traffic entry as published or directed and complied with all restrictions without exceeding wingman’s capabilities. Executed approach IAW applicable publications and directives. Smooth or timely corrections to airspeed, azimuth, and glide slope helped wingman maintain position. Maintained safe airspeed  - 0 to + 10 KIAS. Position would have permitted a safe landing for both aircraft. Properly configured aircraft prior to starting down final. Airspeed on final - 0 to + 10 KIAS. Landed in center of appropriate side of runway without drift. Touchdown speed was - 5 to + 10 KIAS. Touchdown was 500 to 1,500 feet from the runway threshold.  and/or hesitated in making decisions.  Made minor deviations in airspeed or navigation that did not detract from the maneuver. Was inattentive to wingman’s position. Slow to comply with published or briefed procedures. Erratic or abrupt corrections to airspeed, azimuth, or glide slope made it difficult for wingman to maintain position. Position would have permitted a safe landing for both aircraft. Configured aircraft late. Minor drifting occurred but was recognized and corrected. Occasional rough control inputs were not unsafe, but made it difficult for wingman to maintain position. Airspeed on final was - 0 to + 15 KIAS. Touchdown speed was - 5 to + 15 KIAS. Touchdown was 100 to 499 feet or 1,501 to 2,000 feet from the runway AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area  Q Grading Criteria  Q- threshold.  FORMATION (WING)   27   U 75 Area 81. Formation Takeoff. 76 Area 82.  Interval Takeoff. 77 Areas 83-90. Formation. (Perform two-ship formation on the wing, to include  - fingertip - wingwork - echelon - route - crossunder - close trail - pitchout - rejoin.) Maintained position with only momentary deviations. Maintained safe separation and complied with lead’s instructions. Moved to fingertip position after gear and flaps were retracted. Executed takeoff IAW published or briefed procedures. Maintained runway alignment ± 10 feet. Set or maintained proper takeoff attitude. Retracted gear or flaps after safely airborne, but prior to exceeding aircraft limits. Proper power setting, smooth aircraft control, and effective use of geometry facilitated a timely rejoin. Fingertip or Wingwork: Maintained 10 feet wingtip separation, ± 4 feet vertical, and ± 4 feet longitudinal. Echelon Turn: Stacked level ± 5 feet. Maintained fore or aft fingertip references during roll in, turn, and roll out. Route: Maintained Over controlled aircraft to the extent that formation position varied considerably. Was late configuring, but did not exceed aircraft limits. Made abrupt position corrections. Did not maintain safe separation or formation position throughout the takeoff. Exceeded aircraft limits. Minor deviations occurred but did not detract from the takeoff. Maintained runway alignment ± 25 feet. Set and maintained proper takeoff attitude. Inattention, improper power setting, and/or improper use of geometry delayed rejoin.  Takeoff was potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits. Raised gear and/or flaps too early or late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude or power. Erratic aircraft control resulted in excessively delayed rejoin. Over controlled aircraft to the extent that formation position varied considerably. Made minor procedural errors that did not detract from the maneuver being flown. Slow to make appropriate corrections. Unable to perform the required maneuver. Failed to maintain safe separation. Compromised safety in an attempt to accomplish the maneuver. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits.    28  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U position IAW directives or as briefed. Demonstrated ability to clear, monitor NAVAID, and maneuver with lead. Crossunder: Completed in a timely manner. Crossed below lead’s wake with nose or tail clearance. Close Trail: Maintained one to two aircraft lengths behind lead, just below the wake. Pitchout: Rolled out at about the same altitude as lead, in trail.  Rejoin: Expeditiously maneuvered to the proper rejoin line. Maintained controlled closure to the fingertip position and overshot if required.  Breakout: Executed in a timely manner and IAW directives or briefing. Adequate aircraft separation was achieved. Overshoot: Made the decision to overshoot in a timely manner and executed the maneuver IAW directives or briefing. Excessive overtake or angle was dissipated safely. Kept lead in sight. Lost Wingman: 78 Areas 91-93. Formation. (Continued). (Perform two-ship formation on the wing, to include  - breakout - overshoot - lost wingman.) Over controlled aircraft to the extent that formation position varied considerably. Made minor procedural errors that did not detract from the maneuver being flown. Slow to make appropriate corrections. Unable to perform the required maneuver. Failed to maintain safe separation. Compromised safety in an attempt to accomplish the maneuver. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits.  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-   29   U Executed in a timely manner and IAW directives or briefing. Immediate and adequate aircraft separation was achieved. 79 80 Area 94.  Fighting Wing. Area 95.  Extended Trail Exercise. 81 Area 96. Formation Approach. 82 Area 97. Formation Landing. Remained within published cone, using appropriate geometry. Slow to make appropriate corrections. Made smooth or positive control inputs and demonstrated a clear understanding of turn circle geometry and creative use of pursuit curves or energy management to maintain within the published cone.  Maintained fingertip position with only momentary deviations until stacking level. Made smooth or timely corrections. Monitored appropriate NAVAIDs and remained positionally aware. Configured when directed and maintained 10 to 25 feet separation. Slow to recognize and react to changing aspect, angle off, and closure. Erratic power control resulted in less than optimum position. Over controlled aircraft to the extent that formation position varied considerably. Made minor procedural errors that did not detract from the maneuver. Slow to make appropriate corrections. Failed to maintain safe separation. Unable to maintain position. Failed to maintain safe separation. Compromised safety in an attempt to accomplish maneuvers. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits.  Unable to maintain position. Failed to maintain safe separation. Compromised safety in an attempt to accomplish maneuver. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits.  Maintained 10 to 25 feet wingtip separation, stacked level, maintained position throughout landing, with only momentary deviations. Made Over controlled aircraft to the extent that formation position varied considerably. Made minor procedural errors that did not Unable to maintain position. Failed to maintain safe separation. Compromised safety in an attempt to accomplish   30  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U smooth or timely corrections. Did not become airborne after touch-down and maintained appropriate side of the runway. detract from the maneuver. Slow to make appropriate corrections. maneuver. Exceeded aircraft or systems limits.  NAVIGATION 83 Area 98.  Chart Preparation. 84 Area 99.  Flight Log (AF Form 70, Pilot’s Flight Plan and Flight Log) Maintenance. Prepared chart according to applicable directives to include the chart update manual (CHUM).  Updated form as soon as practical after passing each en route fix with actual time of arrival, fuel remaining, and the estimated time of arrival (ETA) to next fix.  Made minor errors or omissions that did not detract from mission effectiveness. Made major errors or omissions that would have prevented a safe or effective mission. Completed form IAW directives. Made minor deviations that did not compromise safety. Form was not completed IAW directives. Made major deviations or errors that could compromise safety. 85 Area 100.  In-Flight Computations. Made timely and accurate computations based on flight conditions. Slow to compute necessary in-flight computations. Made only minor errors. Omitted in-flight computations necessary for the safe conduct of the mission. Made major errors. Exceeded Q- criteria. 86 87 Area 101. Maintaining Course. Area 102.  VFR Arrival. Maintained ± 2 miles or ± 5 degrees. Maintained ± 3 miles or ± 10 degrees.  Performed VFR arrival IAW procedures and techniques outlined in flight manual, operational procedures, and local directives. Performed VFR arrival with minor deviations to procedures and techniques outlined in flight manual, operational procedures, and local directives.  VFR arrival was not performed according to procedures and techniques outlined in flight manual, operational procedures, and local directives.  LOW-LEVEL NAVIGATION   31   U Exceeded Q- criteria. Exceeded Q- criteria. Exceeded Q- criteria. Violated airspace restrictions. Exceeded Q- criteria. Did not correct for winds. Arrived at entry point ± 3 nm or route corridor, whichever is less. Maintain no higher than 2,000 feet AGL (1,500 feet for SR routes) unless obstacles or safety dictated. Reached each checkpoint  ± 150 seconds of planned time. Deviations from course were recognized and corrected. Maintained course within route corridor limits. Improper wind analysis or insufficient drift correction caused aircraft to be blown slightly off course. 88 Area 103.  Route Entry. Arrived at entry point  ± 1 nm. 89 Area 104.  Altitude Control. 90 Area 105.  Time Control. Maintain 500 to 1,500 feet above ground level (AGL) unless obstacles or safety dictated. Reached each checkpoint  ± 90 seconds of planned time. 91 Area 106.  Course Control.  Maintained terrain awareness and planned course + 2 nm. 92 Area 107.  Wind Analysis. 93 Area 108.  DR Procedures. 94 Area 109. Map Reading. Properly analyzed winds and made appropriate drift correction to stay on course. Navigated to planned check-points ± 2 nm and remained geographically oriented. Able to read map and identify prominent landmarks without the use of navigational instruments. AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q- Deviations in course or airspeed control led to the need for large corrections. Failed to locate one or more checkpoints. Exceeded route corridor limits. Errors in procedures or techniques led to some disorientation. Failed to recognize or misidentified checkpoints. 95 Area 110. In-Flight Data/Fuel Procedures. Made timely and accurate updates based on flight computations. Slow to compute necessary in-flight updates. Omitted in-flight checks necessary for the safe conduct of   32  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area Grading Criteria  Q  Q-  U 96 Area 111. Route Abort Procedures. 97 Area 112. Emergency Procedures. 98 Area 113.  General Knowledge: a. Aircraft General. 99 b. Flight Rules/ Procedures. 100 c. Local Area Procedures. 101  Area 114. Publications. Climbed to an appropriate, safe-recovery altitude. Read map and identified landmarks along route. Was slow to attain appropriate safe-recovery altitude. Was slow to identify correct landmarks on route. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE the mission. Climbed to incorrect altitude for recovery. Was unable to maintain proper course on recovery. Correctly and immediately responded to boldface or critical action procedures and non-boldface emergency situations. Effectively used checklist. Had a thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance characteristics. Had thorough knowledge of flight rules and procedures. Response to boldface or critical action procedures was correct but response to non-boldface procedures was slow or confused. Used the checklist, but was slow to locate required data. Had deficiencies in either depth of knowledge or comprehension. Had deficiencies in depth of knowledge. Made incorrect response for boldface or critical action procedures. Unable to analyze problems or take corrective action. Did not use checklist or lacked acceptable familiarity with its arrangement or content. Had unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, or performance characteristics. Had inadequate knowledge of flight rules or procedures. Had a thorough knowledge of local procedures. Had limited knowledge of local procedures. Had inadequate knowledge of local procedures. Publications were current, contained all supplements and changes, and were properly posted. Publications contained deficiencies that would not impact flight safety or mission accomplishment. Publications were outdated and/or contained deficiencies that would impact flight safety or mission accomplishment. INSTRUCTION (IF APPLICABLE) AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 102  Area 115. Briefing/ Debriefing: Grading Criteria  Q  Q- Made minor errors or omissions in briefing, debriefing, or mission critique. Was occasionally unclear in analysis of events or maneuvers. Presented a comprehensive, instructional briefing or debriefing that encompassed all mission events. Made appropriate use of training aids. Gave an excellent analysis of all events or maneuvers. Clearly defined objectives. 103  Area 116. Demonstration of Maneuvers.  104  Area 117. Instructor Knowledge. Performed required maneuvers within prescribed parameters. Provided concise, meaningful in-flight commentary. Demonstrated appropriate instructor proficiency. Performed required maneuvers with minor deviations from prescribed parameters. In-flight commentary was sometimes unclear. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of procedures, requirements, aircraft systems, performance characteristics, and mission beyond that expected of non-instructors. Had deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of procedures, requirements, aircraft systems, performance characteristics, or mission. 105  Area 118.  Ability To Instruct. Demonstrated appropriate instructor or evaluator ability. Clearly defined all Problems in communication or analysis degraded effectiveness of   33   U Made major errors or omissions in briefing or debriefing. Analysis of events or maneuvers was incomplete, inaccurate, or confusing. Did not use training aids or reference material effectively. Briefing or debriefing was below the caliber of that expected of instructors. Failed to define mission objectives. Was unable to properly perform required maneuvers. Made major procedural errors. Did not provide in-flight commentary. Demonstrated below-average instructor proficiency. Was unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, aircraft systems, performance characteristics, or mission. Lack of knowledge seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Demonstrated inadequate ability to instruct or evaluate. Unable to perform,   34  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Grading Area 106  Area 119.  Grading Practices.  Q mission requirements and any required additional training or corrective action. Instruction or evaluation was accurate, effective, and timely. Was completely aware of aircraft or mission situation at all times. Completed appropriate training or evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent.  Grading Criteria  Q- instruction or evaluation.  U teach, or assess techniques, procedures, systems use, or tactics. Was not aware of aircraft or mission situation at all times. Made minor errors or omissions in training or evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear. Did not complete required forms or records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance. 1.6.  Completion of AF Form 8: 1.6.1.  Record  the  aircrew  member’s  qualification,  using  AF  Form  8  IAW  AFI  11-202, Volume 2. (T-2) 1.6.2.  All  mission  evaluations  (whether  contact,  formation,  instrument/navigation,  or  low level) will be logged as “MSN” evaluations in the Flight Phase block (Section II) of AF Form 8.  (T-2).    Additional  clarification  as  to  the  specific  type  of  mission  evaluation  will  be included  in  the  Mission  Description  section  of  the  Examiner’s  Remarks  in  the  Comments block of the AF Form 8. (T-2). (See AFI 11-202, Volume 2, for AF Form 8 requirements.) AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   35  Chapter 2 EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS 2.1.  Evaluations Guidelines: 2.1.1.  All  evaluations  will  follow  the  guidelines  set  in  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2.    Evaluation requirements are shown in Table 2.1 of this AFI. They are divided into the following areas: preflight,  general,  contact,  instruments,  formation  (general),  formation  (lead),  formation (wing), navigation, low-level navigation, general  knowledge, and instruction (if applicable). (T-2) 2.1.2.  CRM  skills  are  evaluated  &  debriefed  for  evaluations  IAW  Table  1.2.    Unit  CRM program managers will monitor CRM evaluation trend data IAW AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Program. (T-2). 2.1.3.  Areas  indicated  in  Table  2.1  with  an  “R”  will  be  flown  by  the  examinee  for  that evaluation.  (T-2). If impossible to accomplish a required area in flight, the FE may elect to evaluate the area by an alternate method (for example, simulator, CPT, orally, etc.) in order to  complete  the  evaluation.  If  the  FE  determines  the  required  item  cannot  be  adequately evaluated by an alternate method, the examinee will require an additional flight to complete the  evaluation.  Critical  areas  are  labeled  “Critical”  in  the  area  title  in  Table  2.1.    Grade critical areas “Q” or “U”.  (T-2). Table 2.1.  Pilot Evaluations Requirements. ITEM  Area Title PREFLIGHT GENERAL 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1  Mission Planning 2  Mission Briefing  3 Ground Operations 4 5 6 7 8 9 Takeoff Departure Clearing Level off Cruise/Navigation In-Flight Checks 10 10 In-Flight Planning/Area Orientation Type of Evaluation  (See Legend) I/Q  Cont  Form  I/Nav  LL R  R R R R R  R R            R R                              36  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Area Title Type of Evaluation  (See Legend) I/Q  Cont  Form  I/Nav  LL 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 11 12 13 14 Communication/Transponder Procedures Crew Coordination/Flight Integrity Risk Management/Decision-Making Task Management 15  Debriefing 16  Airmanship (Critical) 17 Safety (Critical) 18  Aircrew Discipline (Critical) 19 Situational Awareness (Critical) CONTACT 20 21 22 23 24 25 Traffic Pattern Stalls Power-On Stalls Power-Off/ELP Stalls Slow Flight Recovery From Spin Stability Demonstration 26  Nose-Low Recovery  27  Nose-High Recovery  28 Inverted Recovery  29  Aerobatics 30 Letdown and Traffic Entry 31  Normal Pattern/Landing (Overhead) 32  Normal Pattern/Landing (Straight-In) 33  No-Flap Traffic Pattern/Landing (note 2) 34 Emergency Landing Pattern (ELP) (note 1) 35  DELETED 36  Go-Around 37 Touch-and-Go Procedures R R R R  R R R R R    R  R R R   R  R R    R  R R  R R R R R R   R  R R  R    R R    R R R R R R R R R                   R  R R  R R R R                   R  R R  R R R R                   AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   37  ITEM  Area Title Type of Evaluation  (See Legend) I/Q  Cont  Form  I/Nav  LL 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 38 39 40 41 Closed Pattern Breakout and Reentry INSTRUMENTS En Route Aircraft Control Instrument Climb/Descent 42  Airspeed Change 43  Vertical S 44 Steep Turns 45  Unusual Attitude Recoveries 46  Wingover 47  Aileron Roll 48 Fix to Fix 49  Holding  50 51 52 53 54 55 Penetration (note 3) En Route Descent (note 3) Intercept/Maintain Course Intercept/Maintain Arc ILS Approach (notes 4 and 5) PAR Approach (notes 4 and 5) 56  VOR Approach (notes 4 and 5) 57 Localizer Approach (notes 4 and 5) 58  ASR Approach (notes 4 and 5) 59  GPS Approach (notes 4 and 5) 60 61 Low Altitude Approach Circling Approach 62  Missed Approach/Climbout 63 Transition to Land/Landing        R     R R   R R R R R R                               FORMATION (GENERAL)                                           R R R R R R                                 38  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 ITEM  Area Title Type of Evaluation  (See Legend) I/Q  Cont  Form  I/Nav  LL 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 64 Formation Overhead Pattern/Landing FORMATION (LEAD) 65  Visual Signals 66 Position Change 67 68 Formation Takeoff Interval Takeoff 69  Departure 70 Fingertip 71  Wingwork (note 6) 72 73 74 75 76 77 Echelon Close Trail Pitchout Rejoin Fighting Wing Extended Trail Exercise 78  Descent and Traffic Entry 79 80 81 82 83 Formation Approach Formation Landing  FORMATION (WING) Formation Takeoff Interval Takeoff Fingertip 84  Wingwork (note 6) 85 86 87 88 89 Echelon Route Crossunder Close Trail Pitchout                                                            R      R       R R                                                         AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   39  ITEM  Area Title Type of Evaluation  (See Legend) I/Q  Cont  Form  I/Nav  LL 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 90 91 Rejoin  Breakout 92  Overshoot 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 Lost Wingman Fighting Wing Extended Trail Exercise Formation Approach Formation Landing NAVIGATION Chart Preparation Flight Log (AF Form 70) Maintenance 100 In-Flight Computations 101  Maintaining Course  102  VFR Arrival LOW-LEVEL NAVIGATION 103  Route Entry 104  Altitude Control 105  Time Control 106  Course Control 107  Wind Analysis 108  DR Procedures 109  Map Reading 110 In-Flight Data/Fuel Procedures 111  Route Abort Procedures GENERAL KNOWLEDGE                                             R     R                                       112  Emergency Procedures 113  General Knowledge 114 Publications R R R R R  R R  R R          R     R R R R R R  R R R R    40  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 Type of Evaluation  (See Legend) I/Q  Cont  Form  I/Nav  LL R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R ITEM  Area Title INSTRUCTION (Note 7) 115 116 117 118 119 115  Briefing/Debriefing 116  Demonstration of Maneuvers 117 Instructor Knowledge 118  Ability To Instruct 119  Grading Practices LEGEND: I/Q – Instrument/Qualification Evaluation Cont – Contact Mission Evaluation Form – Formation Mission Evaluation I/Nav – Instrument/Navigation Mission Evaluation LL – Low-Level Mission Evaluation R – Required area NOTES: 1. At least one ELP will be accomplished on the Contact Mission Evaluation. (T-2) 2. One no-flap straight-in or no-flap overhead pattern is required on the Instrument/Qualification Evaluation. (T-2) 3. At least one en route descent or a penetration will be accomplished on the Instrument/ Qualification Evaluation.  (T-2) 4. One approach will be flown by the examinee on the Instrument/Navigation Mission Evaluation.  (T-2) 5. At least one precision and one nonprecision approach will be flown on the Instrument/ Qualification Evaluation.  (T-2) 6. Wingwork will be accomplished to 90 degrees of bank and 2 to 3 Gs on the Formation Mission Evaluation.  (T-2) 7. Qualified Instructor Pilots will be evaluated on instructional ability during all periodic evaluations (Instrument/Qualification/Mission) IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2.  (T-2)  2.2.  Pilot Instrument/Qualification Evaluation.  The INSTM/QUAL evaluation will be flown in  instrument  flight  rules  (IFR)  to  fulfill  the  objectives  of  the  evaluation.  (T-2).  The  examinee will complete the following: AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   41  2.2.1.  Instrument examination. (T-2). 2.2.2.  Closed- and open-book qualification examinations. (T-2). 2.2.3.  EPE. (T-2). 2.2.4.  Boldface examination. (T-2). 2.2.5.  Publications  check.  Publications  that  will  be  checked  during  the  evaluation  are technical order (TO) 1T-6A-1CL-1, T-6A Pilot’s Abbreviated Flight Crew Checklist, and the local in-flight guide. (T-2). 2.3.  Pilot Mission Evaluation: 2.3.1.  Scenarios  that  represent  unit  tasking  satisfy  the  requirements  of  this  evaluation.  The profiles  (contact,  formation,  low  level,  or  instrument)  will  be  designed  to  evaluate  the training,  flight  position,  and  special  qualifications  as  well  as  basic  airmanship  of  the examinee. (T-2) 2.3.2.  To the maximum extent possible, instructor pilots and flight leads will brief and lead the  mission.  The  FE  may  require  the  flight  lead  to  fly  the  wing  position  to  perform  events from the wing position. (T-2) 2.3.3.  Minimum  ground  phase  requisites  are  EPE  and  boldface  examinations.  (T-2).  If  the instrument/  qualification  and  mission  evaluation  eligibility  periods  overlap,  a  single  EPE fulfills  each  requirement  if  separate  instrument/qualification  and  mission  evaluations  are accomplished within both eligibility periods. Accomplish separate boldface examinations for each  evaluation.    If  a  combined  instrument/qualification/mission  evaluation  is  flown, accomplish one EPE and one boldface.  (T-2). 2.3.4.  Examinees will only be evaluated on those missions routinely performed by the pilot. Examinees will only be evaluated on those areas and at a performance level for which they are qualified. (T-2) 2.3.5.  T-6 mission areas are contact, formation, instrument/navigation, and low-level. 2.4.  Formal  Course  Evaluation.  Syllabus  evaluations  will  be  flown  according  to  syllabus mission  profile  guidelines  (if  stated)  or  on  a  mission  profile  developed  from  syllabus  training objectives.  To  complete  the  evaluation,  formal  course  guidelines  may  be  modified,  based  on local  operating  considerations  or  FE  judgment.  Syllabus  tasks  not  addressed  in  this  instruction will be evaluated using criterion reference objectives (CRO) from the appropriate syllabus. (T-2) 2.5.  Instructor Evaluation: 2.5.1.  Instructor  evaluations  will  be  conducted  according  to  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2.  Flight evaluations  will  include  a  thorough  evaluation  of  the  examinee’s  instructor  knowledge  and ability. (T-2) 2.5.2.  Initial  rear  cockpit  (RCP) include  a  satisfactory demonstration of normal and emergency patterns and landings (overhead or straight-in) and an  ELP  pattern  and  landing.  (T-2).  Periodic  RCP  landing  qualification  evaluations  will include in-flight evaluation of a landing flown from the RCP.  (T-2). landing  qualification  will   42  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 2.5.3.  Instructor  pilots  will  accomplish  the  RCP  landing  qualification  during  either  (1)  the combined instrument/qualification sortie, (2) a mission evaluation sortie, or (3) as defined in paragraph 2.5.4.     (T-2). 2.5.4.  The RCP landing qualification may be conducted independently of another evaluation. When the RCP landing qualification is evaluated during another sortie as a requisite for flight evaluation, record “SPOT” in the Flight Phase block (Section II) on the AF Form 8 and align the expiration date with the expiration date of the current evaluation in which the examinee would  normally  complete  this  requirement.  (T-2).  Use  the  Examiner’s  Remarks  of  the Comments  block  on  the  AF  Form  8  to  further  describe  the  evaluation  as  a  “Rear  Cockpit Landing  Qualification”  evaluation.  (T-2).    (See  AFI  11-202,  Volume  2,  for  AF  Form  8 requirements.) 2.6.  Evaluation Criteria: 2.6.1.  To initially qualify as an instructor, the pilot must successfully complete a dedicated initial  instructor  evaluation  in  the  RCP.    Subsequently,  crewmembers  designated  as instructors will be evaluated on their ability to instruct during all periodic evaluations IAW AFI 11-202v2.  The flight examiner may serve as the student for the purpose of evaluating the examinee’s instructional ability. (T-2) 2.6.2.  During  recurring  T-6  instrument/qualification  evaluations,  instructor  pilot  examinees may  occupy  either  the  FCP  or  RCP.    During  the  instrument/qualification  evaluation,  first pilot  examinees  will  occupy  the  FCP.  During  T-6  mission  evaluations,  examinees  will occupy  the  seat  normally  occupied  when  performing  in-flight  duties.    During  recurring combined  T-6  instrument/qualification/mission  evaluations,  instructor  pilot  examinees maintaining a RCP landing qualification will normally occupy the RCP. (T-2)  TOD D. WOLTERS, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff for operations AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015   43  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, 19 January 2012 AFI 11-2T-6, Volume 1, T-6A Aircrew Training, 23 June 2010 AFI 11-2T-6, Volume 3, T-6 Operations Procedures, 20 July 2011 AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure, 19 January 2012 Incorporating Change 1, 10 April 2012. AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 7 December 2010 Incorporating Change 1, 18 October 2012 AFI 11-205, Aircraft Cockpit and Formation Flight Signals, 19 May 1994, Certified Current, 3 November 2009 AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program FMP, 22 December 2008, Incorporating Change 1, 28 October 2012; Certified Current 3 Jan 2011 AFMAN 11-217, Volume 1, Instrument Flight Procedures, 22 October 2010 AFMAN 11-248, T-6 Primary Flying, 19 January 2011 AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Program, 15 October 2012 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013  AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, Incorporating AFGM2013-01, 29 August 2013 TO 1T-6A-1, Flight Manual, USAF/USN Series T-6A Aircraft (T-6A flight manual), 24 January 2006 Adopted Forms AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification  AF Form 70, Pilot’s Flight Plan and Flight Log AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications Abbreviations and Acronyms AGL—above ground level AOA—angle of attack ASR—airport surveillance radar ATIS—automated terminal information service CRM—cockpit/crew resource management DR—dead reckoning   44  AFI11-2T-6V2  21 APRIL 2015 EFC—expect further clearance ELP—emergency landing pattern EPE—emergency procedures evaluation FCIF—flight crew information file FE—flight examiner GPS—global positioning system IAW—in accordance with ILS—instrument landing system KIAS—knots indicated airspeed MAJCOM—major command MAP—missed approach point MDA—minimum descent altitude NAVAID—navigational aid nm—nautical mile PAR—precision approach radar PCL—power control lever PMSV—pilot to meteorological service RCP—rear cockpit SR—slow speed low altitude training route TACAN—tactical air navigation TO—technical order VDP—visual descent point VFR—visual flight rules VOR—very high frequency omnidirectional range station VSI—vertical speed indicator  