BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-504  26 MARCH 2015 Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control KEY NUCLEAR BILLET (KNB) PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A10-F  Supersedes:   AFI13-504, 2 October 2012 Certified by: AF/A10  (Garrett Harencak , Maj Gen) Pages: 11   This publication implements AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  It explains the Air Force requirement and process to identify and deliberately manage positions of vital importance to sustaining the rigor and culture necessary for safe, secure and effective nuclear deterrence operations.  This publication applies to all USAF activities, to include the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard.  This publication does not incorporate other guidance, instruction,  policy  or  regulation.    This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level.    Send proposed  supplements  to  this  instruction  to  AF/A10-F  for  coordination  prior  to  approval  and publishing.  Additionally, send requests for waivers or interpretations and recommendations to change, add, or delete requirements to AF/A10-F, 1488 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC, to  usaf.pentagon.af-a10.mbx.af-a10-f-workflow@mail.mil.  20330-1488  or  via  email Recommended  changes  and  questions  should    be  routed  through  the  appropriate  functional’s chain of command using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.   Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.    2  AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015 1.  Overview.  This  publication  establishes  guidance  and  procedures  for  determining  Key Nuclear  Billets  (KNBs)  within  the  AF  Nuclear  Enterprise  (NE)  as  well  as  joint/departmental organizations.  The Air Force ensures key positions of leadership and high-level responsibilities crucial to nuclear deterrence operations and nuclear surety are identified as KNBs and ensures these positions are filled by appropriately qualified nuclear personnel.  Extended vacancies or inexperienced incumbents in a KNB present  great risk to nuclear surety or nuclear deterrence operations. 2.  Definition, Spirit and Intent and General Provisions. 2.1.  Definition.  Within the AF NE, KNBs are select positions filled by experienced Airmen vital  to  the  sustainment  of  the  culture  and  rigor  of  the  NE  and  its  contributions  to  U.S. National Security. 2.1.1.  Each KNB is a position of responsibility within the NE that requires: 2.1.1.1.  A defined level of nuclear experience 2.1.1.2.  The Airman to be immediately effective upon assignment 2.1.1.3.  The highest assignment priority 2.1.1.4.  Continuity of fill 2.1.2.  KNBs  are  to  be  filled  with  appropriately  experienced  Airmen  to  prevent unacceptable risk to mission execution and nuclear surety. 2.2.  Spirit  and  Intent.  All  positions  within  the  AF  NE  are  essential  and  many  may  be singularly  unique  or  important  by  virtue  of  their  role;  but,  KNBs  are  positions  of  greater responsibility  than  the  billets  that  comprise  the  nuclear  mission  core  tasks.    For  example,  KNB  designation  is  generally  not  appropriate  for  5  skill-level  technician  positions,  Major Weapon System (MWS) crewmembers, etc.  KNB designation should be judged holistically with respect to the position’s responsibilities and its impact on the NE. 2.2.1.  While the list below is not comprehensive, KNB designations are to be reserved for the types of positions in which the incumbents are expected to: 2.2.1.1.  Lead/Command a nuclear unit. 2.2.1.2.  Lead  teams  that  develop/sustain  nuclear  weapons  or  weapon  systems  and nuclear capable Airmen. 2.2.1.3.  Exercise  supervisory  authority  at  the  section-level  or  above  to  ensure personnel  performing  core  nuclear  tasks  are  properly  trained,  certified  and  fit  for those tasks. 2.2.1.4.  Affect the attitudes, motivations and/or technical/professional certification of personnel across entire units, multiple units or entire AF specialties (not to include line instructors in a MWS formal training unit). 2.2.1.5.  Analyze/develop  enterprise-wide  nuclear  policy,  practices,  standards  and procedures or lead teams engaged in such activities. 2.2.1.6.  Lead  teams  that  inspect  and/or  certify  units  to  conduct  nuclear  mission activities. AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015   3  2.2.1.7.  Develop  nuclear  policies  that  support  nuclear  deterrence/assurance  as outlined in the National Security Strategy. 2.2.1.8.  Directly  advise  General  Officer  or  civilian-equivalent  and  above  policy makers in nuclear deterrence policy, strategy, security and/or force structure. 2.3.  General Provisions. 2.3.1.  The  selection  method  or  process  employed  to  fill  a  particular  billet  is  not  a determining factor to include or exclude a position for KNB designation consideration.  Boarded or competitively selected positions are not exempt. 2.3.2.  Unfunded  billets  are  not  to  be  considered  for  KNB  designation.    The  KNB program  is  not  intended  to  facilitate  a  change  in  billet  funding.    Billets  that  are programmed and funded within the same fiscal year may be nominated. 2.3.3.  KNBs are filled IAW current personnel assignment policies. 2.3.4.  Assignments resulting from KNB designation apply to active-duty officer, enlisted and civilian positions.  Guard and Reserve may designate KNBs  IAW this instruction; however, those positions will not be filled by the active duty assignment system.  Guard and  Reserve  units  should  submit  KNB-designated  positions  to  AF/A10-F  through  the National Guard Bureau (NGB) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).  AF/A10-F will maintain awareness of these positions.  The AF/A10 Reserve Advisor will be the liaison for the Total Force Initiatives with regard to Guard and Reserve KNBs. 2.3.5.  KNB  designation  is  only  added  or  removed  through  the  collaborative  KNB validation process. 2.3.6.  KNB designation does not limit a hiring authority’s prerogative for competitively-selected billets.  KNB designation highlights the billet’s criticality to the NE and the need for active management of the billet. 2.3.7.  All KNB validation process partners must ensure billet nominations strictly meet the KNB definition.  Misapplication of the designation dilutes the KNB purpose.  The assignment priority afforded the KNB designation impacts the assignment system directly and  each  career  field’s  limited  resources,  uniquely.    In  the  aggregate,  these  resource limitations and effects across the entire AF are considered by the Headquarters AF (HAF) in the validation process. 3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  The Assistant Chief of Staff (ACS), Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10), is the functional authority for management of human capital in the AF NE and is the validation, adjudication, and final approval authority for KNBs. 3.2.  AF/A10-F,  Functional  Authority  Division,  is  designated  as  the  Headquarters, Department of the Air Force Functional Manager for NE human capital within AF/A10 and is the Air Force KNB program manager. AF/A10-F will: 3.2.1.  Act as the Headquarters Air Force subject matter expert on KNB policy, guidance and program management. 3.2.2.  Maintain and distribute the official record of the validated KNB list.   4  AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015 3.2.3.  Ensure periodic validation of KNBs. 3.2.4.  Establish  frequency  and  timing  of  periodic  and  out-of-cycle  KNB  validation efforts. 3.2.5.  Oversee  KNB  validation  coordination  activities  with  KNB  representatives  and process partners. 3.2.6.  Provide adjudicated nomination list to AF/A10 for approval. 3.3.  AF/A1,  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  Directorate  will  designate  an  OPR  to provide  manpower  policy  guidance  and  technical  expertise  to  facilitate  the  manpower-associated KNB validation activities to include: 3.3.1.  Coordinating KNB validation activities with MAJCOM/MAJCOM-equivalent A1 offices. 3.3.2.  Establishing source data baseline for KNB nominations. 3.3.3.  Developing  and  disseminating  standardized  format  for  KNB  nominations,  and receiving and merging KNB nominations into a single, standardized format. 3.3.4.  Providing  KNB  validation  recommendations  consistent  with  the  KNB  definition and current manpower policies and practices. 3.3.5.  Providing  guidance  to  MAJCOM/A1  offices  for  coding  AF/A10-approved  KNB positions  in  the  appropriate  manpower  database  to  enhance  program  management  and ensure accurate billet identification. 3.4.  Career  Field  Managers  (CFM) provide career field-specific subject matter expertise and  KNB  designation  recommendations  consistent  with  the  KNB  definition.    CFMs  will provide headquarters AF perspective guidance on the: 3.4.1.  Billet’s impact on the NE. 3.4.2.  Breadth  and  depth  of  nuclear  experience  required  for  billets  within  their  career field(s). 3.4.3.  Degree to which the required responsibility/leadership level impacts the AF-wide NE rigor/culture and development of subordinate nuclear-capable Airmen. 3.4.4.  Risk to the career field associated with the position going unfilled or being filled by an individual without the requisite nuclear experience. 3.5.  KNB  Stakeholders  are  MAJCOMs,  Combatant  Commands,  Headquarters  Air  Force, joint agencies, other DoD and non-DoD agencies that rely on the expertise of experienced Nuclear-Capable Airmen to fill positions that meet the KNB definition. KNB stakeholders will: 3.5.1.  Designate  a  KNB  representative  as  the  single  point  of  contact  to  speak  for  the KNB stakeholder in all KNB activities. (T-1). 3.5.2.  Nominate billets for KNB designation taking into consideration the: (T-1). 3.5.2.1.  KNB definition. 3.5.2.2.  Billet’s importance and impact to the nuclear mission. AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015   5  3.5.2.3.  Breadth and depth of nuclear experience required for the KNB. 3.5.2.4.  Degree to which the required responsibility/leadership level impacts nuclear culture and rigor within the organization. 3.5.2.5.  Risk  associated  with  the  position  going  unfilled  or  being  filled  by  an individual without the requisite nuclear experience. 3.5.3.  Update Unit Manpower documents IAW AF/A1 guidance. (T-1). 3.6.  KNB  Representatives  are  designated  at  organizations  throughout  the  AF,  COCOMs, joint  agencies,  DoD  and  non-DoD  agencies  that  nominate  or  play  a  lead  role  in  the nomination  of  KNBs.    These  are  typically  O-6  or  equivalent  personnel  representing  their organization’s principal or senior leader’s perspective.  KNB representatives: (T-1) 3.6.1.  Act as AF/A10F’s single point of contact regarding the KNB program within the command, organization or agency. 3.6.2.  Oversee the KNB stakeholder’s internal KNB nomination process. 3.6.3.  Ensure the KNB definition is applied consistently and IAW the general provisions and spirit and intent in section 2. 3.6.4.  Ensure KNB nomination suspenses are met. 3.7.  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC)  will  designate  an  OPR  for  KNBs  to  act  as AF/A10’s  primary  assignment  system  focal  point  .      This  OPR  will  review  the  KNB nomination  list  with  compiled  inputs  from  the  CFMs,  Functional  Managers  (FM)  and  NE Human Capital Functional Manager (AF/A10-F) and provide program advice including: 3.7.1.  Capacity to fill KNB nominations with current and projected resources. 3.7.2.  Impact of competing assignment priorities. 3.7.3.  Officer and Enlisted Development Team vectors. 4.  Collaborative KNB Validation Process. through 4.1.  Overview.  KNB  stakeholders  submit  KNB  nominations their  KNB representatives  IAW  internal  processes.   These  nominations  are  reviewed  by  the MAJCOM/CV, AF two-digit or agency/organization equivalent.  Nominations are processed by  AF/A1M,  coordinated  through  headquarters  AF  CFMs,  adjudicated  by  AF/A10-F,  and approved  by  AF/A10.    NE  organizations  will  assess  new  or  realigned  billets  for  potential KNB designation on an annual basis. (T-1).   AFPC assignment teams use these designators to  identify  a  unit’s  critical  nuclear  positions  before  matching  nuclear  capable  Airmen  to assignments.  Attachment 2 is a graphical depiction of the KNB process. 4.2.  Process details. 4.2.1.  AF/A10-F  in  partnership  with  the  Directorate  of  Manpower,  Organization  and Resources,  AF/A1M,  and  AFPC/CAN  will  determine  the  validation  process  start  date, end date and milestone suspense dates.  AF/A10-F will notify KNB validation process partners and KNB stakeholders through the KNB representatives.   6  AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015 4.2.1.1.  Suspense extensions are requested by MAJCOM/CV or HAF/Joint 2-letter or equivalent and approved by AF/A10.  Milestone and suspense dates for the process and periodic review will be coordinated with assignment processes. 4.2.1.2.  Out-of-cycle KNB nominations are driven by significant fact-of-life changes such as the creation of a new MAJCOM, the activation/inactivation of a unit or when a mission transfers from one unit to another.  These are determined and managed by AF/A10 on an as-needed basis.  All out-of-cycle nominations must be submitted to AF/A10-F before the Air Force Assignment System (AFAS) Field Reclama Window start date attached to each cycle. 4.2.2.  Validation  Cycle  Kick-Off.  AF/A1M  will  determine  the  appropriate  baseline Unit  Manning  Document  (UMD)  validity  date  to  use  as  the  baseline  source  date  and communicate this to all organizations and process partners.  AF/A1M will prescribe the standardized format for all KNB nominations. 4.2.2.1.  As  a  minimum,  the  standardized  format  includes  identifiers  to  the  lowest command  echelon,  a  job  description,  position  number,  duty  title,  full  Air  Force Specialty  Code  (AFSC)  to  include  prefixes,  rank/grade  requirements,  justification comments as applicable and a method to distinguish three billet status categories: (1) Current KNB; (2) New KNB nomination(s); and (3) Current KNB identified for KNB designation removal. 4.2.2.2.  Additional  billet  designations  should  be  added  to  facilitate  the  validation process  at  each  step  (i.g.  Personnel  Reliability  Program  (PRP)  identifiers,  Special Experience Identifier (SEI), Nuclear Experience Identifier (NEI), assignment bucket designations). 4.2.3.  Nomination.  KNB  stakeholders  submit  a  KNB  list  based  on  the  most  recent validation  cycle  incorporating  and  identifying  newly  nominated  billets  and  billets recommended for designation removal.  This list should correspond with the UMD as of the date provided by AF/A1M. 4.2.3.1.  Nominated  billets  should  meet  the  entire  KNB  definition  and  provisions contained in Section 2 of this publication. 4.2.3.2.  Nominations should adhere to the standardized format provided by AF/A1M. 4.2.3.3.  KNB stakeholders coordinate internally as required or IAW local guidance.  KNB  nominations  are  tobe  reviewed  by  the  MAJCOM/CV  or  equivalent  and forwarded to AF/A1M not later than the suspense date. 4.2.4.  Nomination  Review.  AF/A1M  will  review  the  nomination  lists  for  compliance with current policies, practice and funding status. 4.2.4.1.  AF/A1M identifies and reports to AF/A10-F any unfunded billets and those that  will  not  be  funded  within  the  fiscal  year.    Previously  designated  KNBs  are subject to KNB designation removal for changes in funding status. 4.2.4.2.  AF/A1M  merges  nominated  billets  into  a  single  list  using  the  prescribed format, then forward the reviewed list to the CFM for each career field represented and copy AF/A10-F. AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015   7  4.2.5.  Validity Coordination. 4.2.5.1.  CFMs  receive  nominations  from  AF/A1M  and  coordinate  concur  or  non-concur  with  KNB  stakeholder  nominations  based  on  the  KNB  definition  and provisions in section 2 of this publication. 4.2.5.1.1.  CFMs  coordinate  with  KNB  representatives  and  KNB  stakeholder functional managers as  appropriate to ensure the integrity of the KNB  program and ensure proper application of the KNB definition. 4.2.5.1.2.  CFMs  forward  recommendations  to  AF/A10-F  not  later  than  the AF/A10-F established suspense date.  See attachment 2 for time allotted each step of the validation process. 4.2.5.2.  AF/A10-F  forwards  the  compiled  KNB  nomination  list  to  the  AFPC/CAN OPR  who  reviews  the  list  with  assignment  team  managers  and  provide  advice  to AF/A10-F. 4.2.5.2.1.  The AFPC/CAN OPR provides assignment system advice as it relates to filling nominated KNBs to AF/A10-F not later than the AF/A10-F established suspense  date.    See  attachment  2  for  time  allotted  each  step  of  the  validation process. 4.2.5.3.  Recommendations  or  advice  counter  to  the  KNB  stakeholder’s  nomination  includes a brief justification.  This justification should be sufficiently specific for the approval authority to make a final validation decision.  For example, a justification may  be  based  on  the  failure  to  meet  the  criteria  contained  in  the  KNB  definition.  Justification should cite the portion of the definition being violated and the reason for the violation (e.g. Non-concur IAW paragraph 2.1.1.1.: Position [number].  Position does not require a defined level of nuclear experience.  While this position requires extensive technical experience, success in this position is not dependent upon nuclear experience and may be filled by personnel with limited nuclear-specific experience).  The  non-concurring  entity  forwards the  affected  KNB representative and AF/A10-F. 4.2.5.4.  All  efforts  to  resolve  non-concurs  on  individual  billet  designations  should take place between the non-concurring entity and the KNB stakeholder at the lowest level of responsibility possible prior to the final adjudication and mediation phase. information this to 4.2.6.  Final Adjudication and Mediation.  AF/A10-F will adjudicate recommendations IAW the definitions and provisions in section 2 of this publication. 4.2.6.1.  AF/A10-F   leads  adjudication  efforts  of  any  remaining  non-concur recommendations  on  billet  nominations  through  collaborative  coordination  which includes the KNB representative and the non-concurring individual/office and others as deemed appropriate by AF/A10-F. 4.2.6.2.  AF/A10-F submits the final KNB nomination list to AF/A10 for approval.  If unresolved non-concurs still exist, AF/A10-F will brief AF/A10 for final decision. 4.2.6.3.  Upon AF/A10 approval the KNB designation list is final until the next KNB validation cycle.   AF/A10-F forwards the list to AF/A1M, AFPC/CAN, CFMs and KNB stakeholders through the KNB representative.   8  AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015 4.2.7.  Coding and Assignment Action.  AF/A1M will direct MAJCOM/A1Ms to code billets as appropriate in the UMD with KNB designation. 4.2.8.  AFPC/CAN OPR distributes the final list to assignment teams.  Assignment teams will use KNB designations to match personnel IAW established assignment procedures. 4.3.  Out-of-cycle  KNB  validations  follow  the  same  process,  timed  at  the  discretion  of AF/A10.  GARRETT HARENCAK , Maj Gen, USAF ACS, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015   9  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 06 July 2011 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008 Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority Concept of Operations, 22 April 2011 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACS—Assistant Chief of Staff AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command CFM—Career Field Manager COCOM—Combatant Command EO—Executive Order FA—Functional Authority FM—Functional Manager HAF—Headquarters, Department of the Air Force IAW—In Accordance With KNB—Key Nuclear Billet MAJCOM—Major Command MWS—Major Weapon System NE—Nuclear Enterprise NEI—Nuclear Experience Identifier NGB—National Guard Bureau OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PRP—Personnel Reliability Program   10  AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015 SEI—Special Experience Identifier UMD—Unit Manning Document U.S.C.—United States Code VML—- Vulnerable Movers List Terms Key  Nuclear  Billet—Within  the  AF  NE,  KNBs  are  select  positions  filled  by  experienced Airmen vital to the sustainment of the culture and rigor of the NE and its contributions to U.S. National  Security.    Each  KNB  is  a  position  of  responsibility  within  the  NE  that  requires:  a defined level of nuclear experience; the Airman to be immediately effective upon assignment; the highest assignment priority; and continuity of fill. KNBs are to be filled with appropriately experienced Airmen to prevent unacceptable risk to mission execution and nuclear surety. KNB Stakeholder—MAJCOMs, Combatant Commands, HAF Staffs, joint agencies, other DoD and non-DoD  agencies that rely on experienced  Nuclear-Capable Airmen to fill positions that meet the KNB definition. KNB Representative— Designated individuals at organizations throughout the AF, COCOMs, joint agencies, DoD and non-DoD agencies and who nominate or play a role in the validation of KNBs.    These  are  typically  O-6  or  equivalent  personnel  representing  their  organization’s principal or senior leader’s perspective. Nuclear—Capable  Airman—Military  and  civilian  personnel  performing  nuclear  duties  who have  successfully  completed  the  requisite  training  necessary  to  earn  an  AFSC  in  any  of  the nuclear  AFSCs  listed  in  section  3  of  the  Nuclear  Enterprise  Functional  Authority  Concept  of Operations dated 22 April 2011 or civilian-equivalent education and experience that qualifies the individual to perform such duties  AFI13-504  26 MARCH 2015   11  FIGURE 1  COLLABORATIVE KNB VALIDATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS Attachment 2   