BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-605 16 JULY 2015 Operations Support IMPLEMENTATION OF THE US-INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS AGREEMENTS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   AF/A10-SI  Supersedes:   AFI 16-605, 28 March 2012 Certified by: AF/A10-S  (Col Thomas A. Summers) Pages: 16   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  16-6,  International  Arms Control  and  Nonproliferation  Agreements,  and  the  DoD  Foreign  Clearance  Program.    It provides instruction on the United States Air Force (USAF) implementation of and compliance with the U.S./International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) integrated safeguards agreements to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (consisting of comprehensive safeguards and the Additional Protocol) in accordance with U.S. law and policy, as specified in: Department of Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD) 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements; DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  2060.03,  Application  of  the  National  Security  Exclusion  to  the Agreements  Between  the  USA  and  the  IAEA  for  the  Application  of  Safeguards  in  the  US.-    It applies  to  all  USAF  organizations  and  offices  including  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command (AFRC)  and  Air  National  Guard  (ANG).    This  AFI  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all supplements  are  routed  to  AF/A10-S  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.    The authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms Management,  Table  1.1,  for  a  description  of  the authorities  associated with  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority or, alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/A10-S  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847 from the field through appropriate chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,  and disposed of in  accordance with  the  Air  Force   2  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication has been revised.  This rewrite modifies AFI 16-605 by updating the office titles and symbols to reflect the October 2014 HAF reorganization. References to the Deputy Chief of Staff,  Operations,  Plans,  and  Requirement  (AF/A3/5)  were  changed  to  the  Assistant  Chief  of Staff,  Strategic  Deterrence  and  Nuclear  Integration  (AF/A10).  Similarly,  references  to  the Strategic  Plans  and  Policy  Division  (AF/A5XP)  were  changed  to  the  Strategic  Stability  and CWMD  Division  (AF/A10-S).  The  new  revision  also  implements  SAF/AA  guidance  resulting from the recent Compliance Statement Review.  1. 2. 3. 4. Overview.   ...............................................................................................................  Responsibilities.   .....................................................................................................  Implementation Activities.   .....................................................................................  Funding.   .................................................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION     2 5 8 10 11 1.  Overview. 1.1.  Purpose. 1.1.1.  The purpose of this instruction is to provide guidance for USAF implementation of the  Agreement  between  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  International  Atomic Energy Agency  for the  Application of Safeguards in  the United States  and the Protocol Additional to the Agreement between the United States of America and the International Atomic  Energy  Agency  for  the  Application  of  Safeguards  in  the  United  States.  These agreements  are  also  known  as  the  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  and  the Additional  Protocol  (AP)  respectively,  and  are  collectively  referred  to  as  the  integrated safeguards agreements. 1.2.  Background. 1.2.1.  The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  which  entered into force in  1970, established a safeguards system  directed by the  IAEA. The NPT set the number of declared Nuclear Weapon States (NWS) at five (United States, Russia, the United  Kingdom,  France  and  China).  All  other  states  are  designated  as  Non-Nuclear Weapons States (NNWS). 1.2.2.  Each  NNWS  is  required  to  enter  into  a  bilateral  state-specific  comprehensive safeguards  agreement  with  the  IAEA  to  verify  that  nuclear  materials  from  NNWS programs are not being diverted for weapons use. 1.2.3.  As a NWS, the United States was not required to sign a comprehensive safeguards agreement  with  the  IAEA.  However,  for  transparency  purposes  and  to  promote  the nation’s  broader  nonproliferation  policy  goals, the  United  States  concluded  a AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   3  comprehensive safeguards agreement with the IAEA in 1980. The US-IAEA Safeguards Agreement  is  similar  to  NNWS  agreements  with  the  IAEA,  with  one  important difference: the US agreement excludes facilities with national security significance from verification. 1.2.4.  Following the Gulf War in 1991, inspections in Iraq revealed a clandestine nuclear program, despite Iraq’s comprehensive safeguards agreement with the IAEA. As a result, the  IAEA  sought  to  strengthen  bilateral  safeguard  agreements.  These  measures culminated in the Model Additional Protocol (IAEA INFCIRC/540 (Corr.)) in 1997. As with  the  original  comprehensive  safeguards  agreements,  states  negotiated  bilateral Additional Protocols with the IAEA, using the Model Additional Protocol as the baseline. 1.2.5.  The Model AP expands IAEA rights to verify that States Parties are not diverting nuclear material for weapons programs by requiring: 1.2.5.1.  Declaration of facilities involved in all aspects of the nuclear fuel cycle from mining through final assembly. 1.2.5.2.  Complementary access allowing inspection of undeclared locations. 1.2.5.3.  Environmental sampling beyond declared locations when deemed necessary. 1.2.5.4.  Enhanced  monitoring  capabilities  through  the  use  of  advanced  technology and information analysis. 1.2.6.  Under the Model AP, IAEA inspectors are allowed access to all declared facilities. In  addition,  the  AP  complementary  access  provision  allows  for  access  to  undeclared locations  with  very  short  notice,  ranging  from  2  to  24  hours.  In  exceptional circumstances,  the  IAEA  may  provide  less  than  2  hours  notice.  The  purpose  of complementary  access  inspections  is  to  ensure  the  absence  of  undeclared  nuclear materials  and/or activities. Complementary access requests must be in  writing and must specify the reasons for access and the activities to be carried out during such access. 1.2.7.  The United States concluded its voluntary bilateral AP with the IAEA on 12 June 1998. The US AP includes all provisions of the Model Additional Protocol, but adds the National Security Exclusion (NSE) to protect its national security interests. The NSE is a mechanism  giving  the  United  States  the  right  to  exclude  IAEA  inspector  access  to programs, facilities, or information of “direct national security significance.”  Per DODI 2060.03, paragraph 4.d., the NSE does not apply to US Government assets outside of the US.  Any exclusion of US government assets outside of the US should be addressed with the host country through the applicable host country agreements. 1.2.8.  On 31 March 2004, the US Senate provided its advice and consent to ratification of  the  AP  subject  to  several  conditions.  These  included  the  development  of  necessary regulations and guidance for the use of NSE and managed access; performing necessary security  vulnerability  assessments  identifying  location,  activities  and  information  of direct  national  security  significance;  and  conducting  necessary  security  and counterintelligence  training.  After  the  completion  of  these  actions,  the  AP  entered  into force on 6 January 2009. 1.2.9.  In  addition  to  the  NSE,  the  United  States  has  the  right  under  the  AP  to  employ managed  access  to  protect  activities  or  information  during  the  course  of  IAEA   4  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 inspections.  The  AP  does  not  specify  what  measures  may  be  employed.  Rather,  each location must develop its own managed  access  with  guidance from  appropriate security personnel and AF/A10-S. Managed access may include, but is not limited to: 1.2.9.1.  Removing sensitive papers from office spaces; 1.2.9.2.  Shrouding sensitive displays and equipment; 1.2.9.3.  Logging off from computers and turning off data indication devices; 1.2.9.4.  Dismissing non-essential personnel during the inspection period. 1.2.10.  All  DOD-owned  installations  and  defense-funded  research  and  development, technologies  and  materials,  military  capabilities,  equipment,  and  operations,  including intelligence  activities  are  considered  to  be  of  direct  national  security  significance  and therefore are excluded from the declaration list and subject to the NSE. Managed access may  also  be  used  to  prevent  IAEA  access  to  equities  of  direct  national  security significance. 1.3.  Implementation Guidance. 1.3.1.  National Security Presidential Directive 57 on the Implementation of the US-IAEA Additional  Protocol,  dated  4  Feb  2008  (SECRET)  and  Presidential  Executive  Order 13458,  4  Feb  2008,  titled  Implementation  of  the  Protocol  Additional  to  the  Agreement Between  the  United  States  and  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  for  the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, provide guidance to all USG Departments  and  Agencies  concerning  implementation  of  the  US  integrated  safeguards with the IAEA. 1.3.2.  DOD Directive  (DODD) 2060.1,  Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control  Agreements  requires  the  Heads  of  the  DOD  components  to  implement,  within their organizations, US national policy under those arms control treaties and agreements to  which  the  United  States  is  a  Party.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  delegates  central authority  to  Headquarters,  United  States  Air  Force,  Assistant  Chief  of  Staff,  Strategic Deterrence  and  Nuclear  Integration  (AF/A10)  for  all  USAF  implementation  and compliance  activities  in  AFPD  16-6,  International  Arms  Control  and  Nonproliferation Agreements,  and  the  DOD  Foreign  Clearance  Program.  Existing  USAF  chains  of command  are  sufficient  for  communication  and  execution  of  matters  relating  to integrated safeguards. 1.3.3.  DOD Instruction (DODI) 2060.03, Application of the National Security Exclusion to  the  Agreements  between  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  International  Atomic Energy  Agency  for  the  Application  of  Safeguards  in  the  United  States  of  America, provides further guidance to DOD components on the application of the NSE. 1.3.4.  AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, states that USAF program managers  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  all  activities  within  the  acquisition  cycle  are compliant  with  all  USG  arms  control  obligations.  In  addition,  program  managers  are responsible  for  protecting  national  security  and  sensitive  information  regarding  their programs through existing program protection plans (PPPs). 1.3.5.  AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, gives the directive requirements for implementing and AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   5  complying  with  arms  control  agreements  and  designates  AF/A10  as  the  USAF  central authority  for  arms  control  agreements.  The  Strategic  Stability  and  CWMD  Division (AF/A10-S)  is  designated  the  Treaty  Implementation  Manager  for  all  aspects  of  the USAF arms control process. 2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  Overall Responsibilities. 2.1.1.  The  USAF  must  ensure  all  programs  and  activities  are  fully  compliant  with  all arms  control  agreements  of  the  US  Government;  the  integrated  safeguards  are  no exception. 2.1.2.  All  USAF  organizations  must  be  aware  of  USAF  obligations  to  fulfill  US commitments to implement and comply with all arms control treaties and agreements, to include  the  integrated  safeguards.  The  USAF  is  responsible  for  ensuring  the  proper protection  of  national  security  information  from  unauthorized  disclosure  during  arms control visits under any treaty or agreement. 2.1.3.  AF/A10-S  is  responsible  for  monitoring  the  implementation  of  the  integrated safeguards  and  oversees  all  MAJCOMs,  relevant  Numbered  Air  Forces  (NAFs)  and equivalent units, Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) and the Air National Guard (ANG) implementation plans and activities. 2.1.4.  All  MAJCOMs,  relevant  NAFs  and  equivalent  units,  AFDW  and  the  ANG  are responsible for ensuring that subordinate units implement this instruction. 2.2.  Specific Responsibilities. 2.2.1.  Chief, AF/A10-S, shall: 2.2.1.1.  Act  as the USAF point of contact  concerning issues of implementation  and compliance with the integrated safeguard agreements. 2.2.1.2.  Coordinate  with  Offices  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  and  the  Joint  Staff concerning  all  matters  associated  with  the  integrated  safeguards,  working  in  close coordination  with  Offices  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  to  include:  Special Programs  (SAF/AQL),  the  Director  of  Security,  Security  and  Special  Programs Oversight (SAF/AAZ) and the General Counsel (SAF/GC). 2.2.1.3.  Act  as  the  USAF  interface  with  the  Defense  Threat  Reduction  Agency (DTRA). 2.2.1.4.  Ensure that USAF provides timely  and  adequate support for  IAEA visits  to the United States, as requested by the DOD Host Team representatives participating in the inspection management. 2.2.1.5.  Coordinate with the DOD Treaty Manager in the vetting process of all IAEA inspectors and technicians, if requested. 2.2.1.6.  Participate  in  DOD-level  meetings  and  discussions  regarding  guidance  for integrated safeguard implementation and compliance.   6  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 2.2.1.7.  Conduct  outreach/liaison  within  DOD  and  with  the  Department  of  Energy (DOE),  Department  of  Commerce  (DOC),  and  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission (NRC) to ensure USAF equities are incorporated into integrated safeguards planning. 2.2.1.8.  In coordination with the MAJCOMS, develop and lead processes for USAF actions  to  identify  and  protect  USAF  equities  of  national  security  significance  that may be at risk of exposure under the integrated safeguards. 2.2.1.9.  Provide  awareness  training  and  subject  matter  expertise.  Ensure  required security  and  counterintelligence  training  concerning  the  integrated  safeguards  and their impact on USAF programs and activities is developed by the appropriate USAF organizations  and  provided  to  affected  USAF  organizations  and  commands,  as necessary. 2.2.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall: 2.2.2.1.  Ensure Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clause 252.204-7010 titled, “Requirement for Contractor to  Notify DoD if the Contractor’s Activities  are  Subject  to  Reporting  under  the  U.S.-International  Atomic  Energy Agency  Additional  Protocol”  is  included  in  all  contracts  as  prescribed  by  DFARS 204.470-3, Contract Clause. 2.2.2.2.  Ensure  program  managers  of  USAF  equities  that  could  be  affected  by integrated  safeguards  are  aware  of  the  integrated  safeguards’  provisions,  US obligations  under  the  agreements,  the  rights  of  the  United  States  to  protect  national security information during inspections, and the DOD and USAF policies concerning the application of NSE to DoD activities and equities. 2.2.2.3.  Inform  AF/A10-S  of  any  national  security  concerns  or  other  sensitive requirements  regarding  implementation  of  the  integrated  safeguards  by  other  USG departments or organizations as they impact USAF acquisitions. 2.2.2.4.  Inform AF/A10-S of any requests by the IAEA for a complementary access visit  to  USAF  activities,  equities,  programs  or  facilities  related  to  acquisition  of USAF  capabilities,  to  include  subcontractor  activities  supporting  acquisitions,  in order  to  assist  the  DOD  representative  on  the  USG  Host  Team  in  determining whether to seek a NSE or permit managed access to the location. 2.2.3.  The  Director  of  Security  and  Special  Programs  Oversight  (SAF/AAZ)  shall conduct  a  separate  analysis  of  declarations  provided  by  the  DOE,  DOC,  and  NRC  to determine  security  implications  of  any  complementary  access  visits  upon  any  USAF acquisitions programs, operations at logistics centers, or special programs. 2.2.3.1.  SAF/AAZ will notify AF/A10-S and seek assistance in determining whether to seek a NSE or permit managed access prior to IAEA visits to these locations. 2.2.3.2.  SAF/AAZ  will  take  separate  actions,  as  it  determines  necessary  through appropriate  channels,  to  seek  application  of  NSEs  or  managed  access  should  it determine USAF equities, activities, or interests are at risk. 2.2.4.  Air  Force  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC)  shall  provide  legal  support  to  the  Air Force’s implementation of the US-IAEA integrated safeguards agreements. AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   7  2.2.5.  Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) shall: 2.2.5.1.  Provide integrated safeguards-related counterintelligence support, to include counterintelligence training to Air Force offices upon request. 2.2.5.2.  Provide  direct  support  to  AF/A10-S,  as  necessary,  during  any  vetting  of inspectors requested by DOD. 2.2.5.3.  Provide  direct to  AF/A10-S  and  SAF/AAZ  concerning counterintelligence  matters  as  requested  during  any  IAEA  complementary  access visits to the United States. support 2.2.6.  MAJCOM commanders shall: 2.2.6.1.  Assess  the  impact  of  integrated  safeguards  upon  their  commands  and/or programs,  when  requested,  or  when  they  determine  that  environmental  changes necessitate  an  assessment.  This  assessment  is  conducted  regardless  of  whether  the activity is nuclear or non-nuclear in nature and regardless of the physical proximity to declared locations. 2.2.6.2.  Ensure the proper application of NSE in accordance with DODI 2060.03 and act proactively to ensure personnel know and understand the DOD policy to exempt national  security  activities  from  any  complementary  access  visits.  If  commands believe  their  activities  and/or  programs  may  be  included  in  a  declaration  by  the United States, they should raise the issue to AF/A10-S for consideration. 2.2.6.3.  Recognizing  that  declared  activities  by  the  DOE,  DOC,  and  the  NRC  may create  security  vulnerabilities  for  USAF  operations  or  activities  located  at  or  near these  declarations,  ensure  timely  notification  of  such  risks  through  the  appropriate chain of command. The USAF has defined the term at as an equity physically located at the declared location. The USAF has defined near to mean an equity located within ten  miles  of  the  declared  location  or  having  a  business  relationship  (regardless  of physical proximity) with the declared location. 2.2.6.4.  Determine  the  level  of  exposure  to  command  assets  at  or  near  declared facilities  eligible  for  IAEA  inspections  and  ensure  adequate  plans  are  in  place  to mitigate the risk. MAJCOMs will develop managed access plans in coordination with the  lead  government  agency  for  the  declared  site,  should  the  command  and/or program  determine  it  is  at  some  level  of  risk.  MAJCOMs  will  also  predetermine  as accurately as possible, when NSE should be sought during inspections. 2.2.6.5.  Coordinate  with  USAF  program  managers  to  ensure  that  plans,  programs, and  budgets  are  implemented  in  compliance  with  integrated  safeguards,  while safeguarding  sensitive  national  security  information.  If  there  are  USAF  activities being  conducted  under  contract  with  a  commercial  entity,  the  program  manager  for that  equity  needs  to  know  when  to  insist  on  preventing  access  or  implementing managed access. Review PPPs as requested. 2.2.6.6.  Develop  notional  plans,  if  applicable,  outlining  when  to  recommend invoking the NSE during unplanned/unknown requests for complementary  access  to locations  that  are  not  exclusively  on  the  declarations  of  eligible  facilities  for inspection.   8  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 2.2.6.7.  Inform AF/A10-S of a point of contact for integrated safeguards matters and ensure AF/A10-S is notified of changes in points of contact within 30 days. 3.  Implementation Activities. 3.1.  Data Collection. 3.1.1.  As  directed  by  DoD  and  the  Joint  Staff,  AF/A10-S  facilitates  data  calls  to review/assess proposed declarations lists generated by other USG agencies, including any updates  to  the  Eligible  Facilities  List  (EFL)  and  determine  potential  USAF  impacts  for routine  and  complementary  access  inspections.  Data  calls  entail  dissemination  of proposed  declarations  provided  by  DOE,  DOC,  and  the  NRC  to  the  appropriate MAJCOMs and organizations. 3.1.2.  AF/A10-S leads USAF efforts in identifying USAF facilities, programs, activities, and equities located at or near declared facilities. 3.1.3.  AF/A10-S  makes  a  determination  regarding  any  sites,  facilities  or  activities  that should  be  removed  from  the  declaration  list  or  be  subject  to  an  NSE.  A10-S  ensures compliance  with  DODI  2060.03  and  coordinates  the  gathering  of  data  and  supporting information  necessary to seek NSEs.  The  USAF’s final  determination is  reported to  the Joint Staff and the OSD treaty manager. 3.2.  Security Vulnerability Assessments. 3.2.1.  USAF  equity  stakeholders  will  conduct  the  necessary  security  vulnerability assessments (SVAs) of sites, facilities or activities identified in a data call as vulnerable to  exposure  during  AP  visits.    This  assessment  may  be  performed  by  the  stakeholder unit’s leadership in  coordination with  security personnel.   Conducting an SVA involves identifying  USAF  equities  that  could  be  compromised  during  international  inspections and rating the threat level to each equity. (T-0) 3.2.2.  Program  managers  comply  with  AFI  63-101  to  ensure  all  activities  within  the acquisition  cycle  are  compliant  with  all  USG  arms  control  obligations  and  if  necessary prepare PPPs to ensure their programs are protected. 3.2.3.  If local units and/or program managers believe they need additional SVA support beyond the scope of what is available at their level, they are encouraged to request it from AF/A10-S  through  intermediate  headquarters.  AF/A10  seeks  assistance  from  policy, treaty  and  security  experts  from  SAF/AAZ,  Directorate  of  Special  Investigations (SAF/IGX), Information Protection Directorate (SAF/AAP), Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) and other subject matter experts as needed. 3.3.  Air Force Integrated Safeguards Equity Database. 3.3.1.  AF/A10-S  maintains  an  internal  electronic  database  of  USAF  equities  based  on input from the MAJCOMs and Headquarters Air Force. 3.3.2.  The USAF database contains information gathered during initial, annual, and other data  calls.  The  database  contains  a  description  of  the  USAF  program  or  activity,  its geographic  location,  contact  information  (i.e.  program  manager  or  commander),  and results of security vulnerability assessments. 3.4.  Inspections and Complementary Access Visits. AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   9  3.4.1.  The IAEA is provided access to inspect declared locations. In accordance with the integrated safeguards, IAEA inspectors will also have the right to request complementary access to undeclared locations either at, or near the declared location. 3.4.2.  In the event of a complementary access request to an undeclared location, USAF equities and  activities of national  security significance may  be inadvertently exposed to IAEA.  These  types  of  visits  may  be  requested  with  short  notice,  from  2  to  24  hours depending upon the specific circumstances of the request.  In exceptional  circumstances, the IAEA may provide less than 2 hours notice. This provision in the AP is designed to permit  inspectors  to  “follow  the  trail”  of  nuclear  material  diversion  from  legitimate activities to possibly illegitimate activities. Because of the short notice, ordinary security provisions  for  DOD  equities  and  activities  may  not  be  adequate  to  protect  national security information. 3.4.3.  The  US  government  employs  an  interagency  host  team  process  to  monitor  and manage  the  risks  associated  with  IAEA  inspections,  whether  these  are  pre-notified  or short-notice requests for complementary access to undeclared locations. The DOD has a representative  on  the  host  team,  and  the  USAF  supports  the  DOD  representative  with technical  advice  concerning  USAF  equities  and  activities  at  or  near  the  visited  site derived from the USAF Integrated Safeguards Equity Database. 3.5.  Notification and Command and Control. 3.5.1.  The USAF operations cell, situated within the National Military Command Center, will serve as the 24-hour point of contact  for receiving formal  notifications from  DOD. The  USAF  operations  cell to usaf.pentagon.af-a10.mbx.a10-s-workflow@mail.mil (searchable in the Global Access List as "USAF Pentagon AF-A10 Mailbox A10-S Workflow). to  AF/A10-S  via  email relays  notifications 3.5.2.  AF/A10-S  is  the  central  office  for  the  USAF  to  receive  notifications  of  visits  by the IAEA. AF/A10-S ensures notifications are passed to affected units and organizations. 3.5.3.  AF/A10-S  disseminates  notifications  and  other  messages  associated  with  the integrated  safeguards  via  email  to  designated  points  of  contact  with  follow-up  voice notification to points of contact. 3.6.  Outreach and Awareness Training. 3.6.1.  In  accordance  with  AFI  16-603,  Education  and  Training  Requirements  for Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, AF/A10-S will: 3.6.1.1.  Develop an integrated safeguards training and awareness program for USAF personnel,  activities,  and  programs  affected  by  the  agreements  so  that  informed decisions can be made regarding implementation and compliance with the integrated safeguards, while protecting sensitive or national security information. 3.6.1.2.  Provide  managed  access  training.  Managed  access  for  the  AP  is  similar  to the procedures discussed in section 1.2.9. 3.6.1.3.  Provide AP general awareness training as a section of instruction within the USAF annual arms control course.   10  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 3.6.1.4.  Represent  the  USAF  in  all  OSD-sponsored  AP  exercises  and/or  mock inspections.  MAJCOM  and  select  treaty  compliance  points  of  contact  and  program managers may also participate in such activities on request. 3.7.  Staff Assistance. 3.7.1.  AF/A10-S will: 3.7.1.1.  Provide assistance to MAJCOMs and program managers in the development and  implementation  of  compliance  plans,  SVAs,  managed  access,  or  any  other integrated safeguards-related issues, when requested. 3.7.1.2.  Provide  assistance  to  project  managers  and  contractors  subject  to  DFARS Clause 252.204-7010 in developing PPPs in accordance with AFI 63-101. 4.  Funding. 4.1.  General. 4.1.1.  AF/A10-S  provides integrated  safeguards implementation  and  compliance.  MAJCOMs  will  budget  accordingly  for  the  AP  within the annual plans they provide to AF/A10-S. for  USAF  US-IAEA funding  GARRETT HARENCAK, Maj Gen, USAF ACS, Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   11  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), entered into force 5 Mar 70 Agreement Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States, entered into force 9 Dec 80 Protocol Additional to the Agreement Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, signed 12 Jun 98, entered into force 6 Jan 09 INFCIRC 540, Model Protocol Additional to the Agreement(s) Between State(s) and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of the Safeguards, September 1997  Subsidiary Arrangement to the Protocol Additional to the Agreement Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, 12 Jul 98 Executive Report 108-12, Ambassador Kenneth C. Brill letter to the Director General of the IAEA expressing the United States' interpretation of Additional Protocol provisions, written 30 Apr 02 United States Department of State, Article-by-Article Analysis of the US-IAEA Additional Protocol Senate Resolution of Ratification, Treaty Document 107-7 [Page: S3511], Protocol to the Agreement of the International Atomic Energy Agency Regarding Safeguards in the United States, with 2 Conditions and 8 Understandings, 31 Mar 04 Public Law 109-401, Title II, United States Additional Protocol Implementation Act, signed 18 Dec 06 Executive Order 13458, Implementation of the Protocol Additional to the Agreement Between the United States and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, signed 4 Feb 08 National Security Presidential Directive 57 on the Implementation of the US-IAEA Additional Protocol, signed 4 Feb 08 (SECRET) DODD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 9 Jan 01 DODI 2060.03, Application of the National Security Exclusion to the Agreements Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, 13 Nov 08 DODD 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy, 1 Jul 10 DODI 5205.11, Management, Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs (SAPs), 6 Feb 2013 DODI 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources, and the DoD Physical Security Review Board (PSRB), 10 Dec 05 (incorporating Change 1, 19 May 2010)   12  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 DOD 5200.1-R, DoD Information Security Program, 14 Jan 97 DODD 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, 16 Jun 92 DODD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure, 6 Nov 84, Administrative Reissuance Incorporating Change 1, 18 Aug 95 DODI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection within the DoD, 16 Jul 08 (incorporating Change 1, 28 December 2010) Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations System (DFARS), US-International Atomic Energy Agency Additional Protocol, Case 2004 D003, 18 Aug 08 AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD Foreign Clearance Program, 29 Dec 2010 AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, 18 Feb 11 AFI 16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 9 Jun 11 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 Mar 2013 (incorporating through Change 2, 23 Feb 2015) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFDW—Air Force District of Washington AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard AP—Additional Protocol DOC—Department of Commerce DOD—Department of Defense DODD—Department of Defense Directive DODI—Department of Defense Instruction DOE—Department of Energy DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   13  EFL—Eligible Facilities List IAEA—International Atomic Energy Agency NAF—Numbered Air Force NNWS—Non-Nuclear Weapons States NPT—Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission NSE—National Security Exclusion NWS—Nuclear Weapon States PPP—Program Protection Plan RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SVA—Security Vulnerability Assessment USAF—United States Air Force Terms Additional Protocol (AP)— Protocol Additional to the Agreement between the United States of America  and the  International  Atomic Energy  Agency for the Application of Safeguards in  the United States of America. IAEA INFOCIRC/288.Add.1. Air Force Equities— Refers to all nuclear and non-nuclear USAF facilities, sites, programs and activities conducted by the USAF or contracted by the USAF. “At or near”— Treaty term that refers to the proximity (or relative position, space, or time) of activities,  locations,  or  information  associated  with  a  defense  equity  that  would  enable  its characterization.  The  terms  are  not  defined  in  the  AP.  The  USAF  has  defined  the  term  “at”  as equities  physically  located  at  the  declared  location.  The  USAF  has  defined  “near”  to  mean equities within ten miles of the declared location or having a business relationship (regardless of physical proximity) with the declared location. Defense  Threat  Reduction  Agency  (DTRA)—  DTRA’s  mission  includes  combat  support, technology  development,  threat  control,  and  threat  reduction.  Under  Integrated  Safeguards, DTRA is the agency likely to have responsibilities pertaining to technical equipment inspections (TEI), inspection equipment storage and transfer, and inspection notification. Department of Commerce (DOC)— A Lead Agency for integrated safeguards in the US, DOC, via  its  Bureau  of  Industry  and  Security  (BIS),  is  responsible  for  integrated  safeguards implementation  as  it  applies  to  any  commercial  activity  not  licensed  by  the  NRC,  including uranium mining, research and development  not  involving nuclear materials,  and manufacturing and importing exports of specially designed nuclear equipment. Department of Energy  (DOE)— A Lead Agency for integrated safeguards in the US, DOE is responsible  for  reporting  and  protecting  all  eligible  programs  and  activities  at  its  national laboratories and other locations.   14  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 Facility— A reactor, critical facility, conversion plant, fuel fabrication plant, reprocessing plant, isotope  separation  plant,  separate  storage  installation,  or  any  location  capable  of  making  more than 1 kilogram of nuclear materiel suitable for a nuclear device. IAEA  Complementary  Access  Visit  or  Inspection—  Access  provided  by  the  US  to  IAEA inspectors in accordance with the provisions of the US Additional Protocol (AP). Access can be requested  on  short  notice,  within  2  to  24  hours  of  the  requested  visit.  The  IAEA  shall  have complementary  access  for three purposes:  to  assure the absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities at sites, mines, concentration plants and other locations where nuclear material has been  declared;  to  resolve  a  question  on  the  correctness  or  completeness  of  the  information provided by the US pursuant Article 2 of the AP, or to resolve an inconsistency relating to that information;  and  to  confirm,  for  safeguard  purposes,  the  declaration  of  the  decommissioned status of a facility or a location outside facilities where nuclear material was customarily used. INFCIRC—  IAEA  Information  Circular  –  The  primary  means  whereby  the  IAEA  publishes documents, including agreement texts. Information  associated  with  activities  of  direct  national  security  significance— Pertains  to any  unclassified  or  classified  information  (including  data,  text,  drawings,  or  graphics)  that  is communicated or recorded in any form (including hardcopy, electronic or softcopy, verbal, or as imagery,  signals,  or  materials)  related  to  national  security  or  homeland  defense,  including: military  operations  or  training;  intelligence;  materiel  production,  maintenance,  or  supply; research, development, test, or evaluation; infrastructure or personnel. Information  Circular  153—  INFCIRC/153 the  Model  Comprehensive  Safeguards Agreement.  Non-Nuclear  Weapons  States  party  to  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  are required  to  submit  to  a  comprehensive  safeguards  program  and  sign  an  individual  agreement with  the  IAEA  based  on  INFCIRC  153.  It  is  designed  to  verify  declared  nuclear  materials  and activities. is Information  Circular  540—  INFCIRC/540  (Corr.),  also  referred  to  as  the  Model  Additional Protocol, is the model for all Additional Protocol agreements signed by countries and the IAEA. INFCIRC  540  was  designed  to  enhance  the  original  safeguards  agreements  and  includes measures to enable the IAEA to provide greater assurance of the absence of undeclared nuclear material or activities. Integrated Safeguards— Refers to the combination of all safeguards measures available to the IAEA  under  comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  and  additional  protocols  to  achieve  the maximum effectiveness in safeguarding nuclear materials and verifying a country’s compliance with the agreements. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)— The IAEA is the world's center of cooperation in  the  nuclear  field.  It  was  established  as  the  world's  "Atoms  for  Peace"  organization  in  1957 within  the  United  Nations  family.  The  Agency  works  with  its  Member  States  and  multiple partners  worldwide  to  promote  safe,  secure  and  peaceful  nuclear  technologies,  and  to  enforce nuclear safeguards agreements. Locations associated with activities of direct national security significance— Pertains to any DoD-owned,  -leased,  -funded,  or  -used  space,  structure,  facility,  installation,  or  land  occupied by, or associated, with  national  security or homeland defense, including:  military operations or AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015   15  training;  intelligence;  materiel production, maintenance, or supply; research, development,  test, or evaluation; infrastructure or personnel. Location outside facilities— Any installation or location, which is not a facility, where nuclear material is customarily used in amounts of one effective kilogram or less. Managed Access— Measures that restrict inspector access to certain spaces or activities to avoid compromise of national security, proprietary or other sensitive information. National Security Exclusion (NSE)— The unilateral right of the US to exclude the IAEA from access  to  activities  of  direct  national  security  significance,  or  to  locations  or  information associated with such activities. Non-Nuclear  Weapon  State  (NNWS)— Per the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), any state other than the five designated Nuclear Weapon States (NWS); NNWSs are required by the NPT to forego the development and/or acquisition of nuclear weapons. Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)— It  entered into force in 1970 and aims to prevent the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  worldwide.  The  Treaty  prohibits  NWS  from  assisting NNWS  in  acquiring  nuclear  weapons.  NNWS  are  afforded  opportunities  to  use  nuclear technologies/materials  for  civil  purposes,  but  must  subject  these  materials  and  the  associated activities to IAEA safeguards. Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  (NRC)—  A  Lead  Agency  for  integrated  safeguards  in  the US. The NRC has the lead role for commercial activities that it licenses (e.g., reactors, uranium mills, infrastructure supporting facilities, and equipment exports). Nuclear  Weapon  State  (NWS)—  Any  state  which  manufactured  and  exploded  a  nuclear weapon  or  other  nuclear  explosive  device  prior  to  1  January  1967.  Based  on  these  criteria,  the NWS are China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States. Security  Vulnerability  Assessment  (SVAs)—  The  analysis  of  threats  from  potential  arms control  inspector  visits  to  determine  the  susceptibility  and  vulnerability  of  Air  Force  equities. Conducting  SVAs  involves  identifying  USAF  equities  that  could  be  compromised  during international inspections and rating them as high, medium, or low risk. Site—  A  more  narrowly  defined  term  than  “facility”  that  refers  to  the  specific  area  within  a facility/location  where  IAEA  inspectors  are  allowed  to  conduct  an  inspection.  If  the  inspectors wish  to  go  beyond  the  demarcated  boundary  of  the  site,  a  complementary  access  must  be requested in accordance with the Additional Protocol provisions. Examples of a site include, but are not limited to, a room, storage vault, or specific building. US  Additional  Protocol  Declaration—  Refers  to  a  list  of  those  civilian  nuclear  or  nuclear-related  activities disclosed by the  US  to  the  IAEA for verification, pursuant  to  Article 2 of the US-IAEA  Additional  Protocol.  The  IAEA  may  request  complementary  access  to  verify  the completeness or correctness of the declaration. US  Eligible  Facilities  List  (EFL)—  The  list  is  confidential  and  contains  specific  information (i.e. building numbers, maps, etc.) regarding where the IAEA inspectors have been permitted to conduct  inspections  in  the  past.  In  accordance  with  Article  1  (b)  of  the  US-IAEA  Voluntary Offer Safeguards Agreement, EFL refers to “a list of facilities within the United States that are not  associated  with  activities  with  direct  national  security  significance  to  the  United  States….” Since the inception of the 1980 voluntary agreement, the United States has made more than 300   16  AFI16-605  16 JULY 2015 facilities  eligible  for  IAEA  selection  for  the  implementation  of  safeguards.  The  current  list contains over 250 facilities, most of which are NRC licensees. US-IAEA Additional Protocol— The AP was signed by the United States on 12 June 1998 and the  US  Senate  provided  advice  and  consent  to  ratification  on  31  March  2004.  The  AP  entered into force on 6 January  2009. The US-IAEA AP was based on the Model  Additional  Protocol, which  was  aimed  at  providing  greater  assurance  to  the  IAEA  that  nuclear  materials  are  not diverted  for  illegal  purposes.  Unlike  the  Model  Additional  Protocol,  the  US-IAEA  agreement includes  a  national  security  exclusion  clause  in  Article  1  which  allows  the  United  States  to preclude,  without  justification,  the  application  of  IAEA  safeguard  measures  to  materials, activities,  and  facilities  of  direct  national  security  significance.  In  addition,  the  AP  allows  the right to use managed access to protect activities or information of national security significance during the course of IAEA inspections. US-IAEA  Voluntary  Offer  Safeguards  Agreement  /  INFCIRC  288—  It  was  signed  by  the United  States  and  the  IAEA  on  18  November  1977  and  the  US  Senate  provided  advice  and consent to ratification on 2 July 1980. President Carter ratified the Agreement on 31 July 1980 and  it  entered  into  force  on  9  December  1980.  INFCIRC  288  requires  the  United  States  to declare only commercial nuclear power reactors, research reactors, and fuel fabrication plants as eligible  for  safeguards.  Under  this  agreement,  IAEA  inspectors  regularly  visit  four  US  nuclear facilities to verify records of nuclear material in  storage, to check and maintain  IAEA-installed instruments and surveillance equipment, and to confirm physical inventories of nuclear material. The USG reserves the right to add or remove facilities, at any time and for any reason, from the eligible facilities list (EFL), but is required to notify the IAEA when it does so. US  Lead  Agencies—  Those  Executive  Departments  or  Agencies  designated  as  having jurisdiction  over  locations  of  declarable  activities  and/or  national  security  equities  as  well  as responsibility  for  implementation  of  the  AP’s  requirements  to  provide  information  or declarations  to  the  IAEA  and/or  provide  complementary  access.  The  Lead  Agencies  are  the Departments  of  Energy,  Defense,  Commerce  and  State,  and  the  Nuclear  Regulatory Commission.  