 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-504 21 OCTOBER 2011 Operations OVERSEAS FORCE STRUCTURE CHANGES AND HOST NATION NOTIFICATION  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   HQ AF/A8PB  Supersedes:   AFI 10-504, 18 Jan 1994 Certified by: AF/A8P  (Maj Gen Jack Weinstein) Pages: 11    This instruction implements AFPD 10-5, Basing, and applies to regular Air Force basing actions of one year or longer.  Air Force personnel will ensure other Services/Agencies comply with this instruction  when  coordinating  their  potential  basing  actions  and  requirements  of  one  year  or longer that impact Air Force installations.  It provides procedures for all basing actions affecting overseas installations and augments the Air Force Strategic Basing Process described in AFI 10-503,  Strategic  Basing. It  guides  Major  Command  and  Field  Operating  Agency (MAJCOM/FOA)  coordination  of  proposed  overseas  force  structure  changes  and  installation realignments prior to  initiating Joint Staff and Office of the Secretary of Defense coordination.  Send  comments  and  suggested  improvements  through  channels,  to  AF/A8PB,  Room  5A324, 1070 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1070.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to HQ AF/A8PB for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and direct  reporting  units  (DRU)  shall  send  a  copy  of  their  supplement  to  HQ  AF/A8PB;  other organizations  send  a  copy  of  each  supplement  to  the  next  higher  headquarters.    Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with located  at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS) SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.   2  AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011 This version supersedes all previous versions of AFI 10-504.  This version incorporates SECAF-directed changes to the basing approval process that links acquisition, weapon system road maps, force  structure,  manpower,  and  the  public  announcement  process.    Major  changes  include:  multiple organizational changes of basing functions from AF/A7CIB to AF/A8PB and references to  Joint  Staff  and  OSD  processes  for  coordination  and  approval  of  overseas  force  structure changes and host nation notification. 1.  General.  The  Air  Force  Strategic  Basing  Process,  as  described  in  AFI  10-503,  Strategic Basing, provides an enterprise-wide repeatable process for decision-making to ensure all basing actions  involving  Air  Force  units  and  missions  support  Air  Force  mission  requirements  and comply  with  all applicable environmental  guidance.   AF  and non-AF entities will use this AFI for  basing  decisions  outside  the  United  States,  US  territories  and  possessions.    Only  written decisions supported by the processes and procedures contained herein will be considered valid.  A  signed  Program  Action  Directive  (PAD)  does  not  constitute  a  basing  decision  nor  does  it create an exemption to this process.  All taskings related to the Strategic Basing Process must be accomplished  in  writing.    See  Attachment  1,  Glossary  of  References  and  Supporting Information,  for  terms  used  in  this  instruction.    Contingency  and  expeditionary  operations  are exempt  from  the  requirements  of  this  instruction.    The  terms  basing  and  beddown  are  not interchangeable.  Beddown is considered the execution of a basing action. 1.1.  Basing Action.  Any action meeting the criteria in AFI 10-503, paragraph 1.1. 1.2.  Resource Commitment.  No commitment of AF resources, construction, or movement of personnel  and/or  equipment  may  occur  on  an  installation  prior  to  Overseas  Force  Structure Change  (OFSC)  approval  and  completion  of  Host  Nation  Notification  (HNN).    This prohibition does not apply to planning processes. 2.  Process. 2.1.  Overview.  The Air Force Strategic Basing Structure (AFSBS - see Terms) provides for the  Air  Force  approval  of  basing  actions.    All  basing  actions  require  the  submission  of  a Basing  Action  Request  (BAR)  as  described  in  AFI  10-503,  Strategic  Basing,  to  AF/A8PB and will follow the strategic basing process. 2.2.  Process  Steps.    Basing  actions  requiring  HAF  approval  will  use  the  process  as  per directives in AFI 10-503.  This process is designed to inform a Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (SECAF/CSAF) decision on a  preferred alternative for  an overseas basing action  which  then  becomes  the  Air  Force  position  that  is  coordinated  IAW  Joint  Staff  and Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) guidance for approval at the required levels outside the Air Force. 3.  Lead MAJCOM Responsibilities 3.1.  In  addition  to  coordinating  approval  of  a  basing  action  through  the  AFSBS,  the  lead MAJCOM  will  also  coordinate  as  required  with  the  geographic  and  functional  combatant commanders  (COCOMS)  as  directed  by  either  SAF/IEI,  the  Strategic  Basing  Executive Steering  Group  (SB-ESG),  or  AF/A8PB.    This  applies  to  OFSC  proposals,  HNN coordination,  and  proposed  installation  realignments.    Formal  and  informal  COCOM coordination may be appropriate at varying points in the basing process to include defining basing action criteria, identifying installations that should be included in the enterprise wide application  of  criteria,  and  in  the  application  of  military  judgment.    COCOMS  can  also  be AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011   3  tasked  for  input  and  coordination  by  the  Joint  Staff  after  the  Air  Force  submission  of  an OFSC proposal. 3.2.  The process to identify a lead MAJCOM for a basing action is specified in AFI 10-503, Strategic  Basing,  paragraph  3.2.1.    There  will  be  instances  where  the  lead  MAJCOM  for  a basing  action,  e.g.  AFSOC,  will  require  COCOM  coordination  assistance  from  the COCOM’s Air Force component, e.g. USAFE. 4.  Classification. 4.1.  Overseas  basing  actions  are  classified  Confidential  or  higher,  as  appropriate.    The geographic COCOM, in coordination with the Department of State/American Embassy, will declassify  selected  OFSC  information  at  a  specified  date,  normally  30  days  after  HNN  is complete.    The  appropriate  classification  also  applies  to  site  surveys  and  environmental analysis related to the basing action. 5.  Environmental Responsibility 5.1.  The  proponent  (typically  the  lead  MAJCOM)  of  a  basing  action  is  responsible  for complying with, initiating and funding the Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). 5.2.  Environmental  Impact  Analysis  Process  (EIAP).    The  Air  Force  implements  the environmental  analysis  process  through  AFI  32-7061,  The  Environmental  Impact  Analysis Process (EIAP),  as promulgated at  32 CFR Part  989 and 32 CFR, Part 187.   Integration of the EIAP during the initial planning stages of proposed basing actions  will ensure planning and  decisions  reflect  environmental  requirements,  avoid  delays  later  in  the  process,  and preclude potential conflict. completed for 5.2.1.  Basing proponents/entities are responsible for ensuring the EIAP is properly timed and installations.  Proponents/entities will ensure basing requests reflect all essential information on how it will comply with the AF’s EIAP. impacting  Air  Force actions  potentially 5.2.2.  The AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Analysis, is required to initiate the EIAP  and  a  copy  will  be  sent  to  AF/A8PB  with  an  expected  completion  date.    The  AF Form 813 must clearly present the proposed action and alternatives. 5.2.3.  Environmental  Baseline  Survey Environmental Baseline Surveys in Real Estate Transactions. (EBS).   Comply  with  AFI  32-7066, 6.  Scope 6.1.  International  Agreements.  This  instruction  is  not  intended  to  interfere  with  obligations contained  in  international  agreements  concerning  reporting  or  notification  requirements regarding  force  structure  changes,  but  should  serve  to  augment  and  facilitate  the  reporting-notification process. 6.2.  Moves between countries within a combatant command’s area of responsibility (AOR) are  considered  an  OFSC.  The  HNN  request  process  is  initiated  for  movement  of  assigned forces, which are already approved by the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) and documented within the Forces for Unified Command memorandum.  A proposal to move forces between installations  within  a  single  nation  (including  other  Services  or  agencies  onto  Air  Force   4  AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011 installations) would, at the discretion of the SB-ESG, require SECAF/CSAF approval prior to initiating the HNN request process. 6.3.  This instruction does not apply to: 6.3.1.  Unit  Deployment  Program.  The  information  in  this  instruction  does  not  apply  to  changes in OFSC structure accomplished using the existing Joint Staff/J-3 managed unit deployment program or deployment order process. 6.3.2.  Pre-positioned  Equipment.  This  instruction  is  not  intended  for  prepositioned equipment, supplies, munitions, or shipping. 7.  Policy 7.1.  After a basing action has been approved by SECAF and CSAF through the AFSBS, all OFSC actions, in accordance with Title 10, Section 162, must be approved by the SECDEF or,  when  acting  as  the  Defense  Secretary,  the  Deputy  Secretary  of  Defense.  When  the SECDEF  approves  a  broad  posture  concept/plan,  but  the  requested  OFSC  covers  specific realignments  which  may  not  have  been  part  of  the  broad  change,  the  specific  realignment requires  SECDEF  approval.    The  three  thresholds  for  submitting  an  OFSC  proposal  are changes involving: 7.1.1.  Organizations for  Unified  Commands memorandum  published  in  the  Global  Force  Management  Implementation  Guidance (GFMIG). the  SECDEF’s  Forces listed in 7.1.2.  Organizations commanded by an officer in the grade of O-4 or higher. 7.1.3.  Broad Departmental responsibilities and treaties. 7.2.  Actions Included in OFSC Proposals/HNN Requests. The coordination process required to  obtain  SECDEF  approval  of  an  OFSC  and  USD(P)  approval  to  initiate  HNN  of  an approved  OFSC  is  outlined  in  CJCSI  2300.02F,  Coordination  of  Overseas  Force  Structure Changes and Host Nation Notification. 7.3.  Methods  to  obtain  SECDEF  approval  are  specified  with  the  implementation  of  the Global Posture Integration Team (GPIT) and the Global Posture Executive Council (GPEC) that manage the Global Force Posture Implementation Guidance process. 7.4.  The  process  of  changing  overseas  force  structure  is  one  that  involves  most  of  the following actions, generally in the order listed: 7.4.1.  Proposal  to  introduce  or  remove  military  capability  at  overseas  locations  and specifically  at  facilities  as  defined  in  JP  1-02,  “Department  of  Defense  Dictionary  of Military  and  Associated    Terms”  (e.g.,  Main  Operating  Bases  and  Forward  Operating Sites). 7.4.2.  Proposal to realign physical overseas force structure. 7.4.3.  Proposal for reassignment of forces. 7.4.4.  Proposal to re-designate forces and/or command elements. 7.4.5.  SECDEF approval or approval in concept. 7.4.6.  HN consultations and site visits. AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011   5  7.4.7.  HNN approval, initiation, completion, and declassification. 7.4.8.  Treaty notification. 7.4.9.  Public announcement. 7.4.10.  Physical movement of a military unit. 7.4.11.  Unit inactivation/activation/re-designation. 8.  OFSC Proposal Submission. 8.1.  The  lead  MAJCOM  (or  the  Service  or  agency  who  is  the  basing  action  proponent) submits  the  draft  OFSC  proposal  to  AF/A8PB  after  coordination  with  affected  combatant commands, (e.g.,  USSOCOM,  USTRANSCOM and USSTRATCOM), and Service components.  At the outset of any OFSC coordination  process  an  informal  notification,  usually  via  e-mail  to  all  affected  parties  will aid the coordination process. appropriate functional combatant commands 8.2.  The  OFSC  proposal  will  be  in  memorandum  or  message  format  and  shall  contain  the following paragraphs: 8.2.1.  Proposed action. 8.2.2.  Basis for proposal. 8.2.3.  Statement that the OFSC proposal has been approved by SECAF and CSAF after being staffed through the AFSBS. 8.2.4.  Desired HNN, public announcement, and effective change dates. 8.2.5.  Statement  of  U.S.  government  commitments  to  the  country  or  region  (Title  10 requirements). 8.2.6.  Congressional consultation, notification requirements, and actions. 8.2.7.  Other information, including manpower and infrastructure implications. 8.2.8.  Requested action. 8.2.9.  COCOM assessment statement addressing POLMIL implications, operational risk implications, force structure implications, and infrastructure and resource implications.  If coordination with  the COCOM for this assessment  has not  occurred prior to  submitting the draft OFSC proposal to AF/A8PB, it can be requested by the Joint Staff after receipt of the formal Air Force OFSC request. 8.2.10.  Lead MAJCOM (or Service/agency) OFSC point of contact. 8.3.  AF/A8PB will finalize the OFSC proposal memorandum, staff it for HAF signature, and submit it to the required Joint Staff and OSD addressees. 9.  Host Nation Notification Request Coordination Process 9.1.  The HNN request process shall be executed for those  movements that could impact U.S relations with a host nation (HN) and/or affect broad Departmental responsibilities or treaties regarding  overseas  U.S.  military  presence.  In  all  cases  HNN  is  required  for  a  move  that impacts  U.S.  relations  with  the  HN,  which  could  be  the  move  of  a  single  weapon  or   6  AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011 individual serviceman.   This  process  is  primarily managed by the  geographic COCOM and the Department of State/American Embassy. 9.2.  The  HNN  request  coordination  process  will  ensure  all  organizations  with  equity  take appropriate  actions,  the  HN  is  properly  informed,  international  agreements  are  met,  and declassification is properly handled before public release of the information. At the outset of any  HNN  request  an  informal  notification,  usually  via  e-mail,  to  all  affected  parties  and  a posting on the collaboration  blog  http://www.intelink.sgov.gov/blogs/_ofsccollab  will aid in the coordination process. 9.3.  If  OSD  and  the  Joint  Staff  determine  that  sufficient  details  are  included  in  the  OFSC proposal memorandum, USD(P) approval of HNN may be provided with SECDEF approval of the OFSC. 9.4.  If HNN approval is not provided when the OFSC is approved, the lead MAJCOM must initiate the HNN coordination approval process IAW CJCSI 2300.02F.  See Attachment 3 to this instruction. 9.5.  Timelines.  A number of factors to  include HN treaties  and agreements  influence how quickly an OFSC and/or HNN request can be coordinated.  For planning purposes, 180 days is  required for proposals deemed policy significant  at  the national level  by  USD(P).  These 180 days are in addition to the time required to obtain a SECAF/CSAF basing decision IAW the  process  implemented  through  AFI  10-503,  Strategic  Basing.    The  definition  of  policy significant is: an OFSC expected to result in HN or US domestic political discussions at the national level and/or HN press coverage that may create political controversy at the national level. 10.  Realignments 10.1.  A  realignment,  IAW  DoDI  4165.69,  is  the  return,  or  partial  return,  of  overseas  sites operated or maintained by US personnel or forces to host nation control.  It also applies to the conversion to standby status of overseas sites operated or maintained by the United States. 10.2.  Proposals for realignment may involve an OFSC or may simply be a real estate action requiring  HNN.    The  lead  MAJCOM  should  coordinate  with  AF/A8PB  to  determine  if  a proposed realignment constitutes a basing action.  CHRISTOPHER D. MILLER, Lt Gen, AF/A8 DCS, Strategic Plans and Programs AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011   7  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Section A:  Interfaced Publications AFPD 10-5,  Basing, 26 Nov 93 AFI 10-501,  Program Action Directives (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPlan), 5 Jan 94 AFI 10-503,  Strategic Basing, 27 Sep 10 Section B:  Related Publications AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 05 AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 Jun 05 AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 12 Mar 03 AFI 32-7066, Environmental Baseline Surveys in Real Estate Transactions, 25 Apr 94 AFI 32-9000 Series, Real Property Management AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 Sep 98 DODD 5530.3, International Agreements, 11 Jun 87 DODI 4165.69, Realignment of DOD Sites Overseas, 6 Apr 05 DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation, 14 Jan 97 DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulations, 4 Dec 85 CJCSI 2300.02F, Coordination of Overseas Force Structure Changes and Host Nation Notification, 30 Sep 09 CJCSI 2300.03C, Realignment of Overseas Sites, 26 Dec 07 32 CFR Part 187, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions Adopted Forms AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis, 1 Sep 99 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFRIMS—--Air Force Records Information Management System AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFSBS—Air Force Strategic Basing Structure   8  AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011 AMEMB—American Embassies AOR—Area of Responsibility BAR—Basing Action Request BRRP—Basing Request Review Panel COCOM—Combatant Commander CSAF—Chief of Staff, Air Force DEPSECDEF—--Deputy Secretary of Defense DOD—Department of Defense DRU—--Direct Reporting Units EBS—Environmental Baseline Survey EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process FOA—Field Operating Agency GFMIG—Global Force Management Implementation Guidance GPEC—Global Posture Executive Council GPIT—Global Posture Integration Team HAF—Headquarters Air Force HN—Host Nation HNN—Host Nation Notification HQ—Headquarters IAW—In Accordance With JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff MAJCOM—Major Command OFSC—Overseas Force Structure Changes OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—--Office of Secretary of Defense OUSD(P)—Office of Under Secretary of Defense for Policy PAD—Program Action Directive POLMIL—Political and Military RDS—--Records Disposition Schedule SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force SECDEF—Secretary of Defense SB—ESG—Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011   9  USSOCOM—US Special Ops Command USTRANSCOM—US Transportation Command Terms Air  Force  Strategic  Basing  Structure  (AFSBS)—  The  AFSBS  enables  Air  Force  basing decisions  by  supporting  an  enterprise-wide,  criteria-based  review.    The  AFSBS  presents recommended  courses  of  action  to  the  SECAF  and  CSAF  for  making  criteria-based  decisions.  The top-down deliberative elements of the AFSBS are the Strategic Basing – Executive Steering Group (SB-ESG) and the Basing Request Review Panel (BRRP).  The AFSBS is guided by the Air  Force  Strategic  Plan,  Defense  Planning  and  Programming  Guidance  (DPPG),  Air  Force Planning and Programming Guidance (APPG), CORONA, Core Function Master Plans (CFMP) and  other  written  sources.    The  ultimate  goals  of  the  AFSBS  are  to  provide  a  multifunctional, cross-staff  perspective  on  all  key  Air  Force  basing  decisions,  enhance  basing  issue responsiveness, support interactive corporate decision-making, and bridge organizational barriers to improve the basing process. Basing—Actions  taken  to  position  Air  Force  units  (on  AF  or  non-AF  property)  or  non-USAF entities on USAF real property.  Basing is the process used to determine the location of a unit, manpower, mission, or activity. Beddown—The process and act of placing a unit, mission, activity, or personnel on real property for longer than one year. This applies to activities of all military branches, other DoD, non-DoD federal, state and local governmental, and/or private agencies requesting the use of Air Force real property.  Beddown is considered the execution of a basing action. Enterprise—Wide Look – The process of applying the criteria developed by the proponent and approved by HAF to score the enterprise of major/minor installations and sites worldwide.  The enterprise could be as large as approximately 200 locations, but the size is ultimately dependent on operational requirements and the nature of the mission being evaluated for basing.  Once the locations have been quantitatively evaluated against the HAF-approved criteria, the BRRP may host  a  conference  to  apply  military  judgment  factors  to  the  scored  lists  to  produce  a  proposed candidate list.  When the candidate list is approved by the SB-ESG and/or SECAF/CSAF, these locations  are  eligible  for  site  survey  requests  and  are  subject  to  the  environmental  impact analysis process as a reasonable range of alternatives for the proposed basing action.  This entire process should produce transparent, repeatable, and defendable results. Global  Posture  Executive  Council    (GPEC)— The core executive body of the DEPSECDEF chartered  Posture  Process.    Ensures  that  key  initiatives  are  forwarded  in  time  to  influence budgetary  processes  and  key  documents.    Provides  posture-related  policy  guidance  to subordinate agencies for incorporation in planning documents.  The GPEC meets quarterly. Global Posture Integration Team  (GPIT)— Staff-level team representatives from key posture stake-holders  responsible  for  preparing  posture  initiatives  and  evaluation  criteria  for  decision making  bodies.    May  assign  initiatives  to  subordinate  GPIT  Core  for  further  preparation.    The Core is comprised of representatives from OSD, State, and the Joint Staff. Military Judgment— A qualitative process that evaluates the approved enterprise-wide list with respect  to  factors  such  as  Plans  and  Guidance,  Global  Posture,  Building  Partnerships,  Total   10  AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011 Force,  Beddown  Timing,  Force  Structure,  Training  Requirements  and  Efficiencies,  Logistics Supportability, and Resources/Budgeting to produce the potential candidate list. Program  Action  Directive  (PAD)—PADs are  generated at  the Air Staff level  and are used to direct  MAJCOM  development  of  PPlans/PMsgs  for  program  actions  already  in  the  President’s Budget or which are to be worked into the President’s Budget through standard processes. Proponent—The office, unit, or activity at any level that initiates an Air Force basing action. Site Survey—An authorized visit by an individual or team to survey real property to determine its  feasibility  for  a  unit  or  mission  beddown.  Site  surveys  may,  in  part,  consist  of  preliminary examinations, field investigations, etc. US  Territories—Territories  associated  with,  or  administered  by,  the  U.S.  Government, including  but  not  limited  to  the  Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico,  American  Samoa,  Guam,  the Commonwealth  of  the  Northern  Marianas  Islands,  Johnston  Atoll,  Midway  Island,  Virgin Islands, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and Wake Island.  AFI10-504  21 OCTOBER 2011   11  Attachment 2 SERVICE OR FUNCTIONAL COMBATANT COMMAND HNN REQUEST MESSAGE/MEMORANDUM 1. Although the Service or functional combatant command (e.g., USSOCOM, USTRANSCOM, or USSTRATCOM) HNN request message is primarily sent to the Service component for action, the message shall be sent as information to all organizations that may have equity in the force structure change. Addressees include, but are not limited to, the applicable AMEMB, OUSD(P), Joint Staff, Service staff, other affected sister Service components (as appropriate), geographic combatant command, program offices (if applicable), USTRANSCOM (when military lift may be needed to support the move), and the affected military units.  2. The Service or functional combatant command announcement message and/or memorandum start the HNN request process. However, a Service component, in coordination with the Service HQ, may also start the process by including information below in the Service component message to the combatant command. The message shall outline the proposed action and reference the applicable Service approval documentation. The message and/or memorandum shall contain the following paragraphs:    a. Proposed action.   b. Basis for proposal.  c. Approval documentation.  d. Desired HNN, public announcement, and effective change dates. (Note: HNN declassification does not equate to public announcement – some OFSCs do not warrant public announcement.)  e. Statement of U.S. government commitments to country or region – Title 10 requirements.  f. Congressional consultation, notification requirements, and actions.  g. Other information, including manpower and infrastructure implications.  h. Requested action.  i. HNN contact and PPAG contact.  