BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 4140.1-R, DoD Materiel Management Regulation, January 1993, appendix I, UMMIPS Responsibili-ties.  UMMIPS designates priority based on two factors:• The  Force/Activity Designator (FAD), a Roman numeral between I (highest) and V (lowest).It reflects how essential a unit or program is to DoD's overall mission.• The Urgency of Need Designator (UND), an alphabet character that the requisitioning activityassigns to express the urgency of a requisitioned item's use.1.3. The Air Force Priority System builds on the DoD  FAD by assigning a relative priority withineach FAD.  (See Figure 1.)  Originally,  the system used precedence ratings (also called "priorities")only for logistics support; however, the system now determines unit and program priorities for mostresource allocation.  In general, FADs apply to Air Force units and programs per UMMIPS criteria.(See Attachment 2.)1.4. FAD Code Relation to Air Force Precedence Rating System. Air Force  precedence ratingsconsist of two sets of arabic numbers separated by a hyphen.  (The PRWG aligned the first number ofthe Air Force precedence rating with the DoD FAD.)  The number before the hyphen is the DoD FAD.The numbers after the hyphen are the Air Force priority within the FAD.  Precedence ratings rangefrom 1-01 (FAD I) (highest) to 5-10 (FAD V) (lowest).  (See Figure 1.)Figure 1. Relation of FAD Codes to Air Force Precedence Ratings.From1-012-013-014-015-01Precedence RatingThrough1-052-103-104-105-10FADIIIIIIIVV2. Priority Review Working Group (PRWG). HQ USAF/PE, as Chairman, hosts a PRWG yearly toreview precedence rating assignments.  When feasible, conduct this review by correspondence.2.1. Members include representatives from selected Air Force Secretariat, Air Staff, major com-mands (MAJCOM), Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard (ANG) organizations.  (See Figure2.)  Send requests for PRWG membership, with justification, to the PRWG Chairman for consider-ation.  The address is HQ USAF/PE, 1070 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1070.2.2. PRWG members designate a single contact point within their organization for coordinating andprocessing precedence rating requests and information.  Notify the PRWG Executive Secretariat whena change occurs.  The address is HQ USAF/PED, 1070 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC20330-1070.2Figure 2. Composition of the PRWG.CHAIRMAN:  HQ USAF/PEEXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT:  HQ USAF/PEDAIR FORCE SECRETARIAT MEMBERSSAF/AQSSAF/AQTAF/TEAF/LGTAFSOCUSAFESAF/AQPSAF/AQXAF/CEAF/SCPAF/XOFSAF/AQQSAF/IAAF/SPAF/LGMAF/REAIR STAFF MEMBERSAF/INAF/LGSACCAFSPACECOMAETCAMCMAJCOM MEMBERSAFMCPACAFAFRES/XPNGB/LGAIR RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS3. How To Obtain or Change FAD or Precedence Rating Assignments:3.1. FAD I Designations:3.1.1. Command offices of primary responsibility (OPR) send FAD I requests to the appropriatecommand PRWG member for consideration.3.1.2. The PRWG member evaluates the request and takes appropriate action.  If the member sup-ports the request, send it to the appropriate Air Staff Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) or Secretariatequivalent.3.1.3. The Air Staff DCS or Secretariat equivalent establishes the Air Force position with sup-porting rationale and sends the request to HQ USAF/LG.3.1.4. HQ USAF/LG, the Air Force focal point for the Joint Materiel Priorities and AllocationBoard (JMPAB), sends the request to the JMPAB for review.3.1.5. If the JMPAB recommends approval and the President or the Secretary of Defense (SEC-DEF) approves the FAD I assignment,  HQ USAF/PE assigns a FAD I precedence rating afterreceiving the approval documentation.3.2. FAD II-V Designations:3.2.1. Unit Precedence Rating Submission Procedures. Submit requests to the appropriateCommand OPR and PRWG member for consideration.33.2.1.1. The PRWG member evaluates the request and takes appropriate action.  If the mem-ber supports the request, send it to HQ USAF/PE, 1070 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC20330-1070 recommending approval.3.2.1.2. New Unique Units. Requests must include an approved mission statement, identifyexisting units or organizations that will become part of the new unit if applicable, and give anyother information that will help in reviewing and assigning a precedence rating.  Coordinateproposed precedence ratings for ANG units with NGB/CF.3.2.1.3. Change to Existing Unit Precedence Rating. Requests  must  fully  justify  thechange and assess the impact on the mission of the unit using the assigned precedence rating.For a unit whose mission has changed, include an updated approved mission statement.  Coor-dinate proposed changes for ANG units with NGB/CF.3.2.1.4. On receipt of request, HQ USAF/PE researches the proper precedence rating assign-ment and prepares approval documentation.  If approved, the new or changed precedence rat-ing appears in the next publication of the USAF Program:  Installations, Units, and Priorities(short title:  PD) document.3.2.2. Program Precedence Rating Submission Procedures:3.2.2.1. Field and Command Level Program Managers. Send requests with justification toCommand PRWG member for consideration.3.2.2.2. If the member supports the request, send it to the HQ USAF Director level represen-tative for that program.3.2.2.3. Upon concurrence, forward to HQ USAF/PE, 1070 Air Force Pentagon, WashingtonDC 20330-1070 for action.3.2.2.4. Air Staff and Secretariat Level Program Managers. Send a MAJCOM-coordi-nated request with justification to HQ USAF/PE for action.  Note: The HQ USAF Directorlevel is the PRWG member in most cases. 3.2.3. Special Emphasis Precedence Ratings. Justification must include, but is not limited to,the effort’s milestones and objectives, the impact of the denial on the program, and actions takento solve the problem using the assigned precedence rating.3.2.3.1. Range Time. Special Emphasis requests for the sole purpose of gaining range timemust include additional information on past number of test range requests sent, numberapproved and denied, and reasons for denial.  The request must also include the test schedulefor the period of the special emphasis.  It must show other activities directly competing forrange resources and their priority relationship.  Coordinate with the range manager, who mustexplain the denial of range time.4. Principles For Assigning Air Force Precedence Ratings:4.1. First Principle. The employment of weapon systems is of first importance.  The relative impor-tance of different weapon systems reflects national military objectives.  The further removed supportechelons are from the direct support of weapon system employment, the lower their precedence rating.44.2. Second Principle. Units and programs receive a precedence rating consistent with their contri-bution to national security and the overall Air Force mission.  Once assigned, a unit precedence ratingnever changes unless:• The unit mission or relative mission importance changes.• National military policy changes.• An obvious administrative error needs correction.5. Precedence Rating Assignment Guidelines. The Air Force assigns three types of precedence ratings:Unit,  Program, and Special Emphasis.5.1. FAD I. The President or the SECDEF approves  FAD I requests.   Only those activities with thehighest national priority get FAD I precedence ratings (1-01 through 1-05).5.2. FADs II-V. HQ USAF/PE approves FADs II through V.5.2.1. Unit. Unit precedence ratings are the most stable in the priority system.  Changes to unitprecedence ratings demand strong justification.  These guidelines apply:• HQ USAF/PED assigns precedence ratings to new units based on ratings of existing units•with similar missions.For  new  unique  units,  HQ  USAF/XOOB  assigns  a  00-01  precedence  rating  until  HQUSAF/PE approves the actual precedence rating.  Note: MAJCOMs must report installa-tion and unit changes under AFI 16-403, Program Management of Installations andUnits  Data  and  Movement  of  Units  (formerly  AFR  27-16)  to  HQ  USAF/XOOB  toupdate the PD. • A unit may use a supported activity's higher precedence rating for "direct" and essentialmission actions that the unit performs for the supported activity.5.2.1.1. Generally, a unique mission for part of a unit does not determine the whole unit's pre-cedence rating.  Normally, HQ USAF/PE doesn't assign FAD codes or precedence ratingsbelow unit level per AFI 38-101, Air Force Organizational Structure (formerly AFR 26-2).HQ USAF/PE may assign FAD codes and precedence ratings to unique missions that meetboth these criteria:  They need a FAD code or precedence rating different from their wholeunit's and the Air Force Chief of  Staff has named them a "special flight."   These "speciallydesignated flights" carry the same numeric designation as their unit only for the specific pur-pose of FAD code or precedence rating assignment or tracking.  Do not use this "special des-ignation" for any other purpose.  EXAMPLE:  Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) in CivilEngineering Squadrons use a "special flight" designator such as "123 EOD Flight" only forFAD code or precedence rating assignment or tracking; for example, supply requisitions.5.2.2. Program. HQ USAF/PE assigns precedence rating to programs, including research, devel-opment, test and evaluation (RDT&E), as shown in Figure 3.5.2.2.1. HQ USAF/PE assigns precedence ratings to permanent modification programs asshown in Figure 4.5.2.2.2. Some special conditions may warrant an exception to these assignments.  (See  para-graph 3.2.2. for procedures.)55.2.3. Special Emphasis. A program may need a higher-than-normal precedence rating for ashort time, not more than 1 year, to acquire resources vital to completing mission or test needs.5.2.3.1. Units do not receive special emphasis precedence ratings.5.2.3.2. Program managers ask for Special Emphasis precedence ratings only after all othermanagement actions fail.5.2.3.3. Program managers must limit the use of special emphasis precedence ratings to theprogram’s critical path actions.  Other actions use the baseline precedence.5.2.4. Supporting Programs. Programs directly supporting a non-Air Force activity use theFAD that the other DoD or US Government Agency assigns or the foreign country FAD that theJoint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), the SECDEF, or both assign.5.2.4.1. OPRs of programs supporting a unit may ask for the unit’s precedence rating for thatprogram.5.2.4.2. OPRs of support programs for a host program may ask for a precedence rating basedon the level of support they give the host program.  Limit requests for use of the host program’sprecedence rating to those support programs that give "direct" support to the host program.5.2.4.3. The OPR must coordinate these types ( paragraph 5.2.4.1. and paragraph 5.2.4.2.)with the host program’s OPR.  Correspondence and directives about using the host’s prece-dence rating must cite the host program and give rationale that links the support program to thehost program.Figure 3. Program (Including RDT&E) Precedence Ratings.2-032-062-093-064-065-06Strategic defense weapon systems and programs that directly support the SIOP missionTactical weapons systems and strategic airlift systemsAll other FAD II programs (for example, communications equipment, electronics, andother system components)FAD III programsFAD IV programsFAD V programsFigure 4. Permanent Modification Program Precedence Ratings.1-052-063-064-06Programs that modify FAD I resources and weapons system programsPrograms that modify FAD II resources and weapons system programsPrograms that modify FAD III resources and weapons system programsPrograms that modify both FAD IV and V resources and weapons system programs6. Administration of Precedence Ratings. HQ USAF/PED oversees the Air Force priority system andadministers precedence rating assignments.66.1. For requests for new precedence ratings or changes:Follow AFPD 16-3 and this instruction.•• Coordinate with the appropriate Command (includes Guard and Reserve), HQ USAF, or Sec-retariat channels.• Get the concurrence of the appropriate PRWG member before HQ USAF/PED review.6.2. Program Management Directives (PMD) must specify the assigned Air Force precedence rating.6.3. HQ USAF/PED, a mandatory PMD coordinating office, verifies precedence rating assignmentsin USAF PMDs.  EXCEPTIONS:  Cancellation PMDs or amendments for funding only.7. Documentation of Air Force Precedence Ratings:7.1. The USAF Program:  Installations, Units, and Priorities (PD) Document lists approved prece-dence ratings for Air Force units and programs.7.1.1. HQ USAF/XOOB is responsible for the PD.7.1.2. HQ USAF/PED is responsible for Section IV, Priorities, of the PD.7.2. A Program Management Directive (PMD) specifies the assigned Air Force precedence rating forthat program.CHARLES R. HEFLEBOWER,  Brig General, USAFDirector of Programs and Evaluation7Attachment 1GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMSReferencesAFI 16-403,  Program  Management of Installations and Units Data and Movement of Units (formerlyAFR 27-16)AFI 38-101, Air Force Organizational Structure (formerly AFR 26-2)AFPD 16-3, Priorities for Resources Management (formerly AFR 27-1)DoD 4140.1-R, DoD Materiel Management RegulationUSAF Program:  Installations, Units, and Priorities (PD) DocumentAbbreviations and AcronymsACC—Air Combat CommandAETC—Air Education and Training CommandAFI—Air Force InstructionAFMC—Air Force Materiel CommandAFPD—Air Force Policy DirectiveAFRES—Air Force ReserveAFSOC—Air Force Special Operations CommandAFSPACECOM—Air Force Space CommandAMC—Air Mobility CommandANG—Air National GuardCONUS—Continental United StatesDoD—Department of DefenseDCS—Deputy Chief of StaffEOD—Explosive Ordnance DisposalFAD—Force/Activity DesignatorJCS—Joint Chiefs of StaffJMPAB—Joint Materiel Priorities and Allocation BoardHQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air ForceMAJCOM—Major CommandNGB—National Guard BureauOPR—Office of Primary Responsibility8PACAF—Pacific Air ForcesPMD—Program Management DirectivePRWG—Priority Review Working GroupRDT&E—Research, Development, Test and EvaluationSECDEF—Secretary of DefenseUMMIPS—Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority SystemUND—Urgency of Need DesignatorUSAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe9Attachment 2FAD CRITERIAA2.1. FAD I. Highest national priority designated by the President and highest DoD priority designatedby the SECDEF based on JCS recommendations.A2.2. FAD II:Forces in combat.Specific US forces outside the United States.••• CONUS forces subject to immediate (D+24 hours) employment or deployment.•Specific direct combat support functions of foreign country forces and projects that the JCS desig-nates.Programs vital to national objectives and comparable in importance to FAD II forces (for exam-ple, strategicdefense, tactical weapon systems, and strategic airlift).•A2.3. FAD III:• All  other  US  combat  ready  and  direct  combat  support  forces  outside  CONUS  not  included  inFAD II.• CONUS forces subject to deployment prior to D+30.•Specific  direct combat  support  functions of foreign country forces and projects the JCS desig-nates.• CONUS industrial maintenance and repair activities providing direct logistics support for forces•kept ready for combat.Programs comparable in importance to FAD III forces (for example, technology or resources thatare broad or generic in scope and operational in nature but not directly combat related).  Note:The type of organizational level the program supports is a consideration in FAD code assign-ment. A2.4. FAD IV:• US forces kept ready for combat for deployment during the period D+90.•Specific direct combat support functions of foreign country forces and projects that the JCS desig-nates.Programs  comparable  in  importance  to  FAD  IV  forces  (nonoperational  base-level  support,  forexample, civil engineering).   Note: The type of organizational level the program supports is aconsideration in FAD code assignment. •A2.5. FAD V:• All other US forces and programs including staff, administrative, and base supply type activities.•Foreign country forces not otherwise directed.10