BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-110 16 JUNE 2016 Maintenance ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL SERVICES     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A4LM  Supersedes:  AFI21-110, 12 April 2012  Certified by: AF/A4L  (Maj Gen Kathryn Johnson) Pages: 14 This  instruction  supports  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  21-1,  Maintenance  of  Military Materiel, by providing additional direction that is specific to the management of Engineering and Technical  Services  (ETS)  provided  by  Air  Force  (AF)  civilian  specialists  and  Department  of Defense  (DOD)  contractors.    This  AFI  applies  to  all  military  and  civilian  AF  personnel;  i.e., major commands (MAJCOMs), direct reporting units (DRUs), field operating agencies (FOAs), and Air Reserve Components (ARC) which includes Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard; and  other  individuals  or  organizations  as  required  by  binding  agreement  or  obligation  with  the Department  of  the  Air  Force.    MAJCOMs  may  supplement  this  publication  to  identify  any required  deviations  (applicability,  variance,  and/or  differences  in  organizational  placement  of responsibilities/processes); however, subordinate  units may not.    Identify  each deviation on the supplement with “(DEV)” directly preceding the paragraph number.  These supplements must be submitted to AF/A4L for approval; however, supplements that do not include deviations do not require  AF/A4L  approval.    Furthermore,  supplements  must  be  developed  in  accordance  with (IAW)  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management.    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions about  this publication to  the Office of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR) using AF  Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate  Functional  Chain  of  Command.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  Ensure all records created as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  AFMAN  33-363, 2 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    This publication  requires  collecting  and  maintaining  information  protected  by  the  Privacy  Act authorized  by  10  USC  8013.  Privacy  Act  system  of  records  notice  F036  SAF  AA  A  “Civilian Personnel Files”. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed in its entirety. AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 3 Chapter 1 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 1.1.  Purpose.  The  Air  Force  (AF)  must  maintain  its  weapons  systems  and  equipment  to  meet mission operational needs at a reasonable cost. To accomplish this, units need the capability to quickly  resolve  complex  or  unusual  technical  problems  and  provide  enhanced  system-specific technical training to AF technicians and operators. It is not cost effective to train all technicians to this high level of expertise. Therefore, the AF authorizes Engineering and Technical Services (ETS) programs to accomplish these critical technical tasks. Both, AF Engineering and Technical Services  (AFETS)  and  Contractor  Engineering  and  Technical  Services  (CETS),  are expeditionary resources prepared to deploy as needed. 1.2.  Scope.  AFETS  personnel  are  the  primary  source  of  ETS  support  in  the  AF.  AFETS  field technicians  shall  be  used  and  retrained  as  necessary  to  meet  technical  needs.    (T-1).  CETS  are important elements in developing an independent AF capability on new systems; however, units must develop their own organic and AFETS capability whenever possible.  (T-2). Organizations should  normally  terminate  CETS  within  12  months  after  obtaining  self-sufficiency.  However, when considering software issues, numerous modifications and extended life programs  of most Mission  Design  Series  (MDS),  an  appropriate  level  of  CETS  support  over  the  weapon  system life  cycle  may  be  considered  necessary.  ETS  requirements  within  the  AF  will  normally  be satisfied through the use of AFETS where practical. 1.2.1.  Exclusions.  ETS covered in this AFI excludes: 1.2.1.1.  Engineering  review  and  resolution  of  service-revealed  deficiencies  reported through normal maintenance information systems. 1.2.1.2.  Material  deficiency  reports  covered  in  TO  00-35D-54,  USAF  Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution. 1.2.1.3.  The engineering determination of material integrity. 1.2.1.4.  The engineering or technical services used in 61-series instructions. 1.3.  AFETS.  AFETS positions satisfy long-term ETS requirements for on-site field engineering support  and  specialized  technical  training.    AFETS  field  engineers  are  highly  experienced  and thoroughly  trained  civilian  technical  specialists.    AFETS  are  typically  limited  to  civilians because of the advantages of long-term continuity and decreased retraining costs provided by a civilian work force.  They assist units and MAJCOM functional managers in resolving complex system problems.  They assist in troubleshooting and repairing the critical maintenance problems and  research,  analyze,  and  provide  solutions  for  long-term  and  AF-wide  support  equipment problems.    AFETS  design  special  test  equipment,  develop  special  maintenance  procedures, develop  and  conduct  technical  training  for  unit  maintainers  and  operators,  and  recommend changes  to  maintenance  processes.  AFETS  also  serves  as  the  unit  technical  liaison  and  works with  MAJCOM  functional  managers,  depot  technicians,  engineers,  item  managers,  and equipment  manufacturers  to  resolve  equipment  problems.    AFETS  will  certify  tasks  IAW  AFI 36-  2201,  Air  Force  Training  Program,  and  AFI  36-2650,  Maintenance  Training,  in  USAF personnel  training  records  when  training  is  provided  to  the  go/no-go  level.  (T-1).  AFETS  will 4 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 not be authorized to overcome manning shortfalls or to perform duties considered organic to the unit’s manning.  (T-1). 1.3.1.  Allocation of ETS Positions.  Allocations should be based on operational requirements as  determined  by  the  MAJCOM-appointed  ETS  OPR  and  approved  by  the  applicable MAJCOM  Directorate.  AFETS  and  CETS  may  be  authorized  together.  Due  to  the complexity  of  the  equipment  associated  with  certain  programs,  as  well  as  the  number  of systems  fielded, it is  not  always practical  to  provide separate ETS  support  to  each unit.   In these  instances,  ETS  personnel  may  be  assigned  to  strategically  located  units  within  each command  to  provide  services  to  specific  geographical  areas  or  may  be  assigned  to installations  where  collocated  units  have  like  equipment.    When  ETS  are  assigned  to installations  where  units  have  like  equipment,  training  requirements  will  be  coordinated between  units  and  technical  advice  and  assistance  services  will  be  based  on  unit  priorities.  (T-2). 1.3.2.  CETS.  AF  units  use  CETS  to  provide  on-site  proficiency  training,  technical  advice, and technical assistance for initial system bed-down or major modifications when AFETS are unavailable.  Units desiring services of strategically assigned CETS will direct their requests to the MAJCOM OPR.  (T-2).   1.3.2.1.  When CETS and AFETS are assigned to the same unit, CETS will support and train AFETS.  (T-1). 1.3.2.1.1.  CETS  will  certify  tasks  IAW  AFI  36-2201,  Air  Force  Training  Program, and AFI  36-2650,  Maintenance  Training, in  USAF personnel training records when training is provided to the go/no-go level.  (T-1). 1.3.3.  Limits: CETS are restricted to the duties and responsibilities outlined in this AFI and specific tasks listed in the Task Work Specification (TWS).  MAJCOM OPRs (with approval by the applicable MAJCOM Directorate) may grant exceptions to these limits only on a case-by-case basis based on mission need.  Do not use CETS to avoid manpower ceilings or other personnel  rules and regulations. CETS will not: (1) perform non-ETS  duties or normal  unit duties,  (2)  make  policy  or  represent  the  using  activity  at  meetings  or  conferences,  (3) supervise  or  control  Air  Force  personnel  or  personnel  of  other  contractors,  (4)  hold engineering  decision-making  positions,  and  (5)  perform  direct  maintenance  except  in emergency situations.  (T-3). 1.4.  Developing  ETS  Support:  ETS  is  a  key  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management  (ILCM) element  for  "cradle-to-grave"  support  in  the  planning  process  for  new  systems  or  major modifications.  Consider  the  following  factors  when  developing  an  ETS  program  for  a  new system or major modification: complexity of the system or modification;  maintenance concept; and,  other  forms  of  programmed  support  such  as  Interim  Contract  Support  (ICS),  Contract Logistics Support (CLS) and Performance Based Logistics (PBL). 1.4.1.  Identify  total  requirements  for  field  engineering,  technical  advice,  assistance,  and training.  For  training  priority  order,  use  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC), AFETS, and CETS. 1.4.2.  Train AFETS specialists’ early on new systems and modifications and involve them in system  development,  technical  reviews  and  testing,  and  schedule  them  to  arrive  on  site before equipment delivery to help the unit plan for the new systems and to ensure early self- AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 5 sufficiency. When required, schedule CETS to coincide with equipment delivery. When both AFETS and CETS are needed on a system, every effort should be made to co-locate them for maximum  transfer  of  knowledge.  Release  CETS  as  soon  as  AFETS  become  proficient  and capable of meeting long-term ETS requirements. 1.4.3.  AFETS are long-term assets whose value to the AF increases over time. AFETS will receive  priority  consideration  for  technical  and/or  instructor  training  consistent  with effective/efficient training planning and established unit priorities. (T-2). 1.5.  Multi-Command  ETS  Programs.  MAJCOMs  with  similar  Aircraft  MDS  Weapon Systems and Non-aircraft Weapon Systems may merge ETS resources and management under a single  command.  If  merged, the  applicable  MAJCOM  Directorates  shall  establish  a Memorandum  of  Agreement  (MOA)/Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MOU)  to  facilitate coordinated  planning,  programming,  and  budgeting  to  avoid  duplication.  The  MOA/MOU  will designate  who  possesses  authority  to  act  on  behalf  of  the  MOA/MOU  signatories.  MAJCOMs not merged by MOA/MOU who utilize AFETS/CETS personnel may decentralize management of the ETS program to the using activity provided all the applicable requirements of this AFI are met. 1.6.  Programming,  Budgeting,  and  Funding  ETS.  Major  activities  normally  program, budget,  and  fund  both  AFETS  and  CETS  with  Operations  and  Maintenance  (O&M)  money. However,  when  appropriate,  use  Research  and  Development  (R&D)  funds,  industrial  funds, other funds authorized to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), or  Defense  Working  Capital  Fund  (DWCF)  IAW  AFI  65-601V1,  Budget  Guidance  and Procedures. 6 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 CHAPTER 2 RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  MAJCOMs will: 2.1.1.  Supplement this document as necessary to ensure standardization among subordinate units. 2.1.2.  Designate  a  Lead  ETS  Program  office  in  a  single  MAJCOM  to  administer  the activities of the member MAJCOMs merged by MOA/MOU. 2.1.3.  Designate an ETS OPR in the appropriate Headquarters Directorate or Field Operating Activity  (FOA)  to  serve  as  the  MAJCOM  ETS  OPR  for  member  MAJCOMs  merged  by MOA/MOU. 2.1.4.  Ensure  all  applicable  requirements  of  this  AFI  are  met  by  units  authorized  to decentralize management of their ETS programs to the using activities. 2.1.5.  Program  and  defend  MAJCOM  ETS  funds  and  manpower  requirements  over  the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) consistent with AF mission requirements. 2.1.6.  Budget  and  fund  AFETS  Permanent  Change  of  Station  (PCS),  Temporary  Duty (TDY),  and  Developmental  Training  costs  to  support  their  MAJCOM  requirements  and submit Program Objective Memorandum (POM) for all ETS requirements. 2.1.7.  Identify mobility statements in AFETS Standard Core Personnel  Document (AFI  36-202, Civilian Mobility) and designate positions as Emergency-Essential. 2.1.8.  Ensure  general  personnel  management  records  are  maintained  at  the  unit  of assignment  on  all  ETS  personnel  to  assure  proper  management  and  administration  of  ETS resources. 2.1.9.  Ensure training for AFETS receive proper priority in AF training plans. 2.1.10.  Redistribute  ETS  resources  between  major  activities  when  mission  changes  dictate such realignment. 2.1.11.  Provide government property support to CETS IAW Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Subpart 45.3, Authorizing the Use and Rental of Government Property. 16 May 2016. 2.1.12.  Coordinate  CETS  contract  questions  with  the  Air  Force  Life  Cycle  Management Center  (AFLCMC),  Enterprise  Acquisition  Division  (PZIEB)  who  performs  all  central acquisition contracting functions for CETS. 2.2.  Lead ETS Program Office/Decentralized Management Activities (as applicable) will: 2.2.1.  Develop  TWS  and  initiate  procurement  packages  for  each  approved  CETS requirement using appropriate Advisory & Assistance Service policies and procedures IAW FAR Subpart 37.2, Advisory and Assistance Services, 16 May 2016. 2.2.2.  Oversee Contract Officer Representative (COR) activities. 2.2.3.  Establish procedures to notify subordinate activities of CETS termination. AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 7 2.2.4.  Develop and utilize assessment criteria to effectively manage, administer, and control ETS. 2.2.5.  Conduct  annual  assessments  of  ETS  Team  performance  at  each  field  unit. Prepare/update  the  annual  ETS  plan  that  supports  ETS  programming,  budgeting,  and manpower actions with adjustments for mission changes or other uncontrollable factors and obtain validation and approval from the applicable MAJCOM Directorate 2.2.6.  Coordinate  AFETS  placement  and  Standard  Core  Personnel  Documents  with manpower and civilian personnel offices. 2.2.7.  Maintain the knowledge, training and skill of the AFETS workforce. 2.2.8.  Update AFETS on new weapon systems and equipment conversions. 2.2.9.  Coordinate  with  weapon  system  and  equipment  managers  to  program  AETC  Type  I Training  and  other  types  of  training  for  AFETS  on  a  priority  basis  for  current  and  new systems. 2.2.10.  Provide AFETS instructor training. 2.2.11.  Realign  AFETS  resources  as  needed  when  the  mission,  system,  or  equipment changes. 2.2.12.  Verify  need  for  CETS  personnel  security  clearances  and  take  action  to  maintain access  at  the  minimum  level  required  IAW  AFI  31-501,  Personnel  Security  Program Management 2.2.13.  Include  Personnel  Reliability  Program  guidance  in  the  TWS  of  contractors  whose duties involve nuclear weapons. 2.2.14.  Consolidate  subordinate  units’  requirements  and  establish  a  validation  process through the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU ETS OPR (as applicable). 2.2.15.  Manage MAJCOM ETS TDY and training budget to include planning and execution of funds.. 2.3.  Using Activity will: 2.3.1.  Employ ETS resources effectively and efficiently to enhance mission capability IAW AF  and  MAJCOM  guidance.  (T-1).  AFETS  assigned  as  tenants  will  be  afforded command/base  support  by  the  host  commensurate  with  other  assigned  DOD  civilians  to include  eligibility  for  local  awards,  security  clearance  processing,  annual  physicals, passport/visa processing etc. (T-1). 2.3.2.  Fund  AFETS  to  attend  conferences  and  Technical  Interchange  Meetings  (TIM),  as required.  (T-3).  Provide  office  supplies,  special  Information  Technology  (IT)  equipment  as necessary  to  support  the  unit's  mission.  (T-3).  In  addition,  fund  training  requirements  to ensure AFETS remain current on assigned and emerging systems. (T-3). 2.3.3.  Adhere  to  ETS  TDY/Deployment  Policies.  (T-1).  Units  are  authorized  to  deploy AFETS  to  support  mission  requirements.  AFETS  employees  shall  be  assigned  Unit  Task Code  (UTC)  positions  in  mobility  tasked  units  or  may  be  substituted  against  military positions  on  the  Deployment  Manning  Document  (DMD)  as  required.  (T-1).  CETS 8 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 representatives are typically not deployed, but may be deployed on specific approval of the MAJCOM OPR, subject to contract provisions. 2.3.4.  Adhere to Adverse Action, Appeal and Grievance Procedures. (T-1). Refer to AFI 36-704,  Discipline  and  Adverse  Action,  issue  based  36-Series  AFIs,  and  Negotiated  Labor Management (Union) Agreement as applicable, before proceeding. 2.3.5.  Provide Air Force Certifying Officer (AFCO) support. (T-1). The using activity OPR will serve as or designate AFCOs for CETS personnel and provide the name, office symbol, signature,  and  telephone  number  of  the  AFCO  to  the  Administrative  Contracting  Officer (ACO), with a copy to the MAJCOM OPR, no later than 30 days after the CETS assignment or within five workdays of any AFCO change. (T-2).The CETS contract line items assigned to  each  certifying  officer  will  be  clearly  identified  in  this  designation.  The  AFCO  is responsible for certifying the monthly Certificate of Service (COS). It is recommended that the  using  activity  delegate  the  AFCO  responsibilities  to  the  Operations  Officer  of  the squadron  primarily  using  the  individual  CETS  employee’s  services.  The  designated certifying officer will be a commissioned officer. (T-2). When it is impractical to designate a commissioned officer or one is not available, requests for approval to appoint a senior NCO or  AF  civilian  (GS-11  or  above)  as  AFCO  will  be  submitted  by  the  using  activity  OPR  in writing to the MAJCOM OPR. Each request will be evaluated on an individual basis. 2.4.  AFETS Responsibilities.  AFETS personnel will:   2.4.1.  Provide  field  engineering,  technical  advice,  assistance,  and  training  for  maintaining and operating unit equipment. (T-1). 2.4.2.  Investigate equipment failures and mishaps and train personnel to prevent recurrence. (T-1). 2.4.3.  Develop contacts with contractor, depot, and AFMC engineers, technicians, and item managers to resolve maintenance problems, design deficiencies, and supply problems. (T-1). 2.4.4.  Develop  special  test  equipment  and  maintenance  procedures  to  resolve  complex system problems. (T-1). 2.4.5.  Perform  emergency  maintenance  (direct  assistance)  on  equipment  when  temporary skill or manning shortages prevent accomplishment by other assigned personnel. (T-1). 2.4.6.  Advise the unit OPR on the best utilization and management of CETS. (T-1). 2.5.  CETS Contractor Responsibilities.  CETS contractor will: 2.5.1.  Provide ETS through CETS employees who perform the duties described in the TWS. (T-1). 2.5.2.  Select, supervise, and exercise sole and autonomous control and direction over CETS employees. (T-1). 2.5.3.  Comply with the administrative and security regulations of the using activities. (T-1). 2.5.4.  Provide copies of the TWS to CETS employees. (T-1). 2.5.5.  Provide CETS security clearance certification to the unit security office. (T-1).   AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 9 2.6.  CETS Employees’ Responsibilities.  CETS employees will: 2.6.1.  Give  on-site  technical  advice  and  hands-on  training  on  all  aspects  of  equipment maintenance and operation including modifications and retrofits. (T-1). 2.6.2.  Advise  and  train  on  special  tools,  handling  equipment,  test  equipment,  and  other related items. (T-1). 2.6.3.  Comply with and emphasize Air Force safety precautions. (T-1). 2.6.4.  Provide maintenance and operational information from the manufacturer. (T-1). 2.6.5.  Assist in mishap investigations and failure data reporting. (T-1). 2.6.6.  Perform direct maintenance only under unusual or emergency circumstances, and only for a short time. (T-1). 2.6.7.  Submit monthly activity reports and Certificates of Service. (T-1). 2.6.8.  Retain a copy of the TWS in their personnel files. (T-1). 10 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 Chapter 3 CONTRACTING 3.1.  General.  AFLCMC is the central contract agency for CETS. AFLCMC has designated the Enterprise  Acquisition  Division  (office  symbol,  PZIEB),  2275  D  Street,  Bldg.  16,  room  128, Wright Patterson AFB OH 45433-7228 as the single Procurement Contracting Office (PCO) for CETS. AFLCMC/PZIEB is the ACO and is responsible for administering CETS contracts for all MAJCOMs  and  FOAs.  AFLCMC/PZIEB  only  accepts  CETS  requirements  initiated  by  the MAJCOM OPRs. 3.2.  Government Facilities and Services.  The Government will: 3.2.1.  Provide the contractor the facilities and services specified in the CETS contract. (T-1): 3.2.2.  Suitable transportation for contractor personnel, baggage, and equipment at the work site and on official business. (T-1).  If the Government fails to provide this transportation, it will  reimburse  the  contractor  for  transportation  expenses.    All  travel  requires  advance approval from the MAJCOM OPR or designee. 3.2.3.  Electronic  message  and  internet  services  to  the  contractor  IAW  AFMAN  33-153, Information  Technology  (IT)  Asset  Management  (ITAM)  and  other  appropriate  equipment specific directives. (T-1). 3.2.4.  Telephone  services  for  official  business  according  to  the  same  local  directives applicable to government employees. (T-1). CETS may use DSN only in overseas areas with prior approval according to AFI 33-590, Radio Management. 3.2.5.  The  contractor  may  use  government  services  and  agencies  to  transmit  and  exchange funds for employees when commercial services are not adequate or available.  JOHN B. COOPER Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 11 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005 AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 33-590, Radio Management, 08 April 2013 AFI 36-202, Civilian Mobility, 18 March 1994 AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994 AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010 AFI 36-2650, Maintenance Training, 20 May 2014 AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012 AFMAN 33-153, Information Technology (IT) Asset Management (ITAM), 19 March 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003 FAR, Subpart 37.2, Advisory and Assistance Services, 16 May 2016 FAR, Subpart 45.3, Authorizing the Use and Rental of Government Property, 16 May 2016 T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 October 2009 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air Combat Command ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer AETC—Air Education and Training Command AF—Air Force AFCO—Air Force Certifying Officer AFETS—Air Force Engineering and Technical Services AFI—Air Force Instruction AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 12 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard ARC—Air Force Component CETS—Contract Engineering and Technical Services CLS—Contract Logistics Support COR—Contracting Officer Representative COS—Certificate of Service DEV—Deviation DMD—Deployment Manning Document DOD—Department of Defense DRU—Direct Reporting Unit DSN—Defense Switched Network DWCF—Defense Working Capital Fund ETS—Engineering and Technical Services FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation FOA—Field Operating Agency FYDP—Future Years Defense Program HQ—Headquarters IAW—In Accordance With ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management ICS—Interim Contract Support IT—Information Technology IT—Information Technology Asset Management MAJCOM—Major Command MDS—Mission Design Series (of aircraft) MOA—Memorandum of Agreement MOU—Memorandum of Understanding NCO—Noncommissioned Officer O&M—Operations and Maintenance OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 13 PBL—Performance Based Logistics PCO—Procuring Contract Office or Officer PCS—Permanent Change of Station POM—Program Objective Memorandum R&D—Research and Development RDS—Records Disposition Schedule TDY—Temporary Duty TIM—Technical Interchange Meeting TWS—Task Work Specification USAF—United States Air Force UTC—Unit Task Code Terms Administrative  Contracting  Officer  (ACO)—The  contracting  officer  assigned  contract management  and  administration responsibilities  under  each  CETS  contract  exhibit. AFLCMC/PZIEB is the ACO for all agencies except HQ ACC which will establish an internal ACO or negotiate an ACO agreement with AFLCMC/PZIEB. Air Force Certifying Officer (AFCO)—AFCOs are appointed by the using activity OPR to be the government’s on-site representatives to  ensure the contractor meets  the requirements  of the Task Work Specification (TWS) and monitor CETS personnel time and attendance. Air Force Engineering and Technical Services (AFETS)—AFETS is on-site field engineering support  and  specialized  technical  training  provided  by  highly  experienced  and  technically qualified  Air  Force  civilian  or  military  personnel.  May  also  refer  to  the  people  who  perform these duties. CETS Certificate of Service (COS)—The CETS representative prepares the COS and presents it to  the  AFCO  each  month  for  certification.  The  AFCO  notes  any  exceptions  or  unsatisfactory services on the COS. Contractor  Engineering and Technical Services  (CETS)—CETS is on-site ETS provided by technically  qualified  defense  contractor  representatives  to  elevate  the  skills  and  abilities  of AFETS Air Force military and civilian personnel to the self-sufficiency level. May also refer to the personnel who perform these duties. Engineering  and  Technical  Services  (ETS)—ETS  provides  Air  Force  units  with  full engineering support and instruction, technical advice, and training in the installation, operation, and  maintenance  of  aircraft  and  aerospace  equipment,  weapon  systems,  and  ground-based communications,  radar,  and  computer  equipment.  Air  Force  or  contractor  ETS  specialists provide these services using hands-on training or other forms of instruction. MAJCOM OPR—MAJCOM director of Logistics or equivalent establishes the office assigned the  responsibility  for  central  management  of  the  command’s  ETS  program.  Commands  with 14 AFI21-110  16 JUNE 2016 similar  equipment  or  weapon  systems  may  appoint  one  MAJCOM  to  function  as  OPR  for  all involved MAJCOMs as designated by MOA/MOU. Procuring  Contracting  Officer AFLCMC/PZIEB, who negotiates and executes the basic CETS contract. (PCO)—The  contracting  officer,  Wright-Patterson Training  Provided  by  ETS—System-specific  technical  training,  provided  by  ETS  personnel within  a  unit  to  increase  the  technical  qualifications  of  assigned  personnel,  using  any  media deemed practical to meet unit requirements. Using Activity—The unit receiving ETS support. The using activity is subordinate to the major activity. Using  Activity  OPR—The  office  within  the  using  activity  assigned  responsibility  for  ETS program management. Typically, the MXG/CC is the using activity OPR.  