 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-123 3 FEBRUARY 2017 Maintenance AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM (AFREP)     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A4LM Policy Branch  Supersedes:  AFI21-123, 27 September 2012  Certified by: SAF/AQD  (Mr. John A. Ray) Pages: 12 This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Maintenance of Military Materiel. It provides guidance and  procedures  governing  the  initiation,  transmission,  and  tracking  of  field-generated suggestions  related  to  repair  of  aerospace  parts  and  equipment.  It  also  restricts  field  unit  or AFREP  work  center  conversion  of  non-reparable  items  to  reparable  items  to  the  processes described in this AFI. This instruction applies to Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG).    MAJCOMs/ANG  authorizing  units  to  participate  in  repairs prescribed in  this AFI must  comply with  all prescribed requirements.  MAJCOMs/ANG whom choose  not  to  have  their  units  participate  in  AFREP  program  do  not  require  a  deviation  or supplement  to  this  AFI  as  participation  is  optional  at  the  MAJCOM/ANG  levels.    MAJCOM supplements to this document will be submitted to AF/A4L for approval prior to publication. For the purposes of policy the ANG is recognized as a MAJCOM. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/A4LM using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are identified  with  a  tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the  appropriate  tier  waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  HQ  USAF/A4L  for  non-tiered compliance items.  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in the publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.  Failure  to  observe  the  prohibitions  and  mandatory  provisions  in  this  publication  (e.g.  “will,” “will not,” “shall,” “shall not,” “ must,” “must not,” etc.) by military members is a violation of Article  92  of  the  UCMJ,  or  similar  language  in  the  paragraphs  or  sections  that  contain  these  2 AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 mandatory provisions or prohibitions IAW AFI 33-360.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In-Accordance-With (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed in its entirety. 1.  Program  Objectives.  The  AFREP  is  an  optional  program  and  maintenance  personnel performing AFREP repairs, will perform the repair action only as an additional duty or as part of normal  maintenance workload.  Unit  leadership must verify mission benefit outweighs the cost and  obtain  MAJCOM  AFREP  Manager  approval  prior  to  program  implementation.    The  Air Force  Repair  Enhancement  Program  optimizes  Air  Force  resources  and  repair  capability  of aerospace  parts  and  equipment  by  increasing  the  wing-level  (referred  also  as  field-level) participation  with  the  appropriate  Program  Office  (PO).  This  is  accomplished  by  field-level identification and recommendation of candidates for reparability consideration by the appropriate PO.   The  concept  is  to  make  recommendations  to  the  program  manager  (PM)  of consumable/expendable  items  which  the  field-level  has  identified  as  desirable  candidates  to  be considered  for  conversion  to  field-level  repair,  limited  repair  or  even  full  depot-level  repair, contract or organic as directed by the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process in AFI 63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management.  In  addition,  ensure  repair  cost/benefit  analysis  takes into consideration the total costs to the Air Force as outlined in Air Force Technical Order (TO) 00-20-3,  Equipment  Inventory,  Status  and  Utilization  Reporting.    The  approval  to  change  the Source,  Maintenance,  Recoverability  (SMR)/    Expendability,  Recoverability,  Reparability, Category  (ERRC)  codes,  or  select,  use,  arrange  for,  contract  with,  qualify  sources  of  repair,  or authorize the initiation of any local or other repair action rests solely with the PM. 1.1.  Repair Approval.  The MXG/CC or equivalent will ensure all items being repaired by AFREP have been approved by the appropriate repair authority (e.g. PM, PO).  (T-1).  IAW AFI  63-101/20-101,  personnel  must  coordinate  any  operational  change  to  the  system,  end item,  and/or  modified  configuration  or  maintenance  procedure  (i.e.,  additional  base-level repair or contract repair of any item beyond the provisions which already exist in field-level Technical  Orders  (TOs))  prior  to  implementation.    (T-1).    Note:    Field-level  personnel, including AFREP work centers, shall not contract out or arrange for repair services without prior written authorization by the PM and approval by the MAJCOM AFREP Manager.  (T-1).  The PM responsible for the system or end item shall retain responsibility for making any decision stemming from such a recommendation.  Field-level TOs do not give permission for local contract or off-base repair of any item, only on-base repair to the extent specified by the SMR code for a given item. 1.2.  Operational  Safety,  Suitability  &  Effectiveness  (OSS&E).  Operational  Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness (OSS&E) is an outcome of properly planned and applied systems engineering.  Organizations  responsible  for  preserving  OSS&E  of  Air  Force  systems  or  end items  must  ensure  that  operational  use,  configuration  changes,  maintenance  repairs,  aging, part substitutions, and similar activities and events do not degrade baselined characteristics of systems or end items over their operational life. It is an integrated effort to ensure items are not  allowed  to  degrade  as  a  result  of  maintenance,  repairs,  parts  substitutions,  and  similar  AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 3 activities. The program  manager is  responsible for  the assurance of OSS&E throughout  the life cycle of each configuration of each component of each system. Only the PM may convert an item from non-reparable to reparable. 2.  AFREP Requirements. 2.1.  Requirements.  Given authorized repair of a consumable/expendable item, the PM will determine the SMR/ERRC code validity. All resulting changes are linked with Supply Chain Manager  consideration  for  that  item.  Supply  Chain  Management  issues  must  be  considered as a matter of law, given these issues affect Congressionally Authorized budget authority and funds  allocated  to  accomplish  specifically  different  supply  chain  functions  (spares  buys versus repairs). 2.1.1.  Any  personnel,  organization  or  AFREP  work  center  may  request  SMR/ERRC code changes IAW TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order System Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equipments, Chapter 4 and AFH  23-123,  Volume  2,  Part  2,  Integrated  Logistics  System-Supply  (ILS-S),  ILS-S, Standard Base Supply System Operations, Chapter 8. 2.1.2.  Non-repairable  (XB3)  assets  submitted  to  PM  for  repair  approval  will  contain AFTO 22 (SMR/ERRC change) IAW TO 00-25-195 and a MAJCOM published form for the  AFREP  Vendor  Repair  Approval  that  will  include  all  supply  data,  full  justification and  test/repair  procedures.  This  document  will  be  reviewed  by  the  MAJCOM  AFREP Manager as stated in par 3.4.4 of this instruction. 2.1.3.  Repairable  (XF3)  assets  submitted  to  PM  for  vendor  repair  approval  will  be submitted  on  MAJCOM  published  form.  The  form  must  contain  all  current  vendor certifications and governing technical procedures utilized for test/repair by vendor. This document will be reviewed by MAJCOM AFREP Manager as stated in par 3.4.4 of this instruction and signed off. 2.2.  Asset  Turn-In.  Items  repaired  IAW  technical  data  will  be  turned  in  to  the  supply system following guidance in AFMAN 23-122, Material Management Procedures, Chapter 6  and  TO  00-20-3,  Maintenance  Processing  of  Reparable  Property  and  the  Repair  Cycle Asset Control System. (T-1). 2.3.  AFREP Reporting Instructions: 2.3.1.  Wing AFREP Managers will provide quarterly updates to the MAJCOM AFREP Manager. (T-1). 2.3.2.  MAJCOM AFREP Managers will report yearly updates to the HAF/A4LM by 31 Aug. 2.3.3.  The quarterly/yearly updates will include at a minimum the nomenclature of items repaired, total cost, and total amount saved for each item. 3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  AF/A4L Responsibilities: 3.1.1.  Prepares, publishes and reviews AF-level policy and guidance for AFREP. 3.1.2.  Perform annual program analysis to verify mission benefits outweigh costs.  4 AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 3.2.  Program Manager Responsibilities: 3.2.1.  Maintains  responsibility  for  applying  integrated  systems  engineering  principles, processes, and practices. 3.2.2.  Evaluates and approves MAJCOM-validated item repair process requests. 3.2.3.  Selects and qualifies sources when the selection authority.  When not the selection authority;  provides  selection  criteria  guidance  and  recommendation  related to maintenance, supply, and repair sources to the selection authority. 3.2.4.  Designates a focal point within the program office for the MAJCOM and end users to contact regarding AFREP recommendations and OSS&E issues. 3.2.5.  PMs  may  utilize  the  AFREP  database  to  gather  trend  analysis  on  non-standard routine repairs at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-TE-AC-43/default.aspx. 3.3.  Participating MAJCOM Responsibilities: 3.3.1.  Coordinates and issues MAJCOM supplement, as required, to this AFI pertaining to transmission  of recommendations to the appropriate PO. identification  of  candidate items for  consideration,  and 3.3.2.  Designates a MAJCOM AFREP Manager. 3.3.2.1.  The  AFREP  Manager  will  establish  and  maintain the  AFREP Recommendation  Submittal  site,  (e.g.,  SharePoint)  for  tracking  recommendations submitted to appropriate POs (N/A to AFSPC). 3.3.2.2.  Perform annual analysis on program viability 3.3.2.3.  Compile  annual  program  cost  benefit  analysis  information  and  forward  to AF/A4L. 3.4.  MAJCOM AFREP Manager Additional Responsibilities: 3.4.1.  Administers/manages the MAJCOM AFREP. 3.4.2.  Maintains the AFREP Recommendation Submittal site. 3.4.2.1.  Recommendations  to  the  appropriate  PO  for  repair  considerations  and  their status (part identification, initiation date, submittal date, closure date). 3.4.3.  Maintains,  updates  and  distributes  list  of  Wing/Unit  AFREP  POCs  to  include representatives from other agencies (e.g., Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), Air Logistics Centers (ALCs), MAJCOMs). 3.4.4.  Review/Validates  Wing/Unit  SMR/ERCC  requests  IAW  TO  00-25-195  and  TO 00-20-3 prior to submission to the applicable PO for evaluation/approval. 3.4.5.  Validates opportunities. items  are  approved  for  contract  repair  for  strategic  sourcing 3.4.5.1.  Initiates  the  opportunity  assessment  of  strategic  sourcing  candidates  when deemed appropriate or when requested by the PO 3.4.6.  Provides quarterly MAJCOM cross-tell of AFREP repairs to base/Center AFREP managers.  The  minimum  data  will  include  nomenclature,  total  cost,  and  total  amount  AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 5 saved for each item across the MAJCOM. Quarterly reports will be posted to the AFREP website at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-TE-AC-43/default.aspx 3.5.  Wing/Unit Responsibilities: 3.5.1.  Participates in AFREP when approved by the MAJCOM AFREP Manager. (T-1). 3.5.1.1.  MXG/CC or equivalent will assign a unit AFREP Manager. (T-1). 3.5.1.2.  Ensure AFREP Manpower positions are out-of-hide and will not be listed on the MXG Unit Manning Document (UMD) as unfunded. (T-1). 3.6.  Wing/Unit AFREP Manager Responsibilities: 3.6.1.  Submit  recommendations  to  the  appropriate  PO  for  SMR/ERRC  changes,  as required,  IAW  TO  00-25-195,  AFI  21-101,  Aircraft  and  Equipment  Maintenance Management  and this AFI.  (T-1).   Note:  Field-level  TOs do not  give  authorization for local contract repair of any item, only on-base repair to the extent specified by the SMR code for a given item. AFREP work centers or any other field personnel will not perform repairs not authorized by technical data.  (T-1). 3.6.1.1.  Prior to submitting a recommendation, AFREP work centers will coordinate thru  MAJCOM  AFREP  Manager  to  determine  appropriate    PM  for  the    Critical Application  Items  (CAI)  and  Critical  Safety  Items  (CSI).  (T-1).    CAIs,  CSIs,  or elements of a system which the PM has designated as a CAI system or a CSI system are  prohibited  from  consideration  under  the  AFREP  program  unless  otherwise approved  by  an  authorized  engineering  authority.  All  Electronic  Warfare  (EW) Systems  are  CAI-designated  systems.    Verification  of  CAI  and  CSI  items  is completed at:  https://remote3.amrdec.army.mil/csiviewer/. See Attachment 2, CAI & CSI for additional information. 3.6.1.2.  Contractor  repairs  of  any  item  are  not  allowed  without  prior  written authorization from the PM and approval by the MAJCOM AFREP Manager.   (T-1).  Note:    AFREP  work  centers  are  prohibited  from  entering  into  repair  source contractual/obligation relationships with contractors. DOD regulations exist to assign such  actions  (finding  and  qualifying  repair  sources)  to  the  authorized  engineering authority. 3.6.1.2.1.  If  contract  repairs  are  authorized,  contracts  will  be  established  IAW local contracting procedures.  (T-1). 3.6.1.2.2.  The  Wing/Unit  AFREP  Manager  will  ensure  the  Statement  of  Work (SOW) includes, as a minimum, the following items for contracted repairs: 3.6.1.2.2.1.  Requirement  for  the  contractor  to  perform/document  receiving inspections.  (T-1). 3.6.1.2.2.2.  Requirement for the  contractor to  inspect/test the item  following repair.  (T-1).    6 AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 3.6.1.2.2.3.  Requirement  for  the  contractor  to  provide  a  record  of  the  repair and test results to the AFREP office and made available for the Government Inspector (e.g., Contract Officer Representative (COR)).  (T-1). 3.6.1.2.2.4.  Contract  will  specify  expected  shipping,  transportation  and repair-estimate completion dates.  (T-1). 3.6.1.3.  Repair  items  in  accordance  with  Technical  Data.  (T-1).  NOTE:  Restricted use  of  systems  will  result  from  use  of  components  which  have  been  repaired  as described  immediately  above,  without  prior  written  authorization  from  the  program manager. 3.6.2.  Enter  data  into  the  AFREP  Recommendation  Submittal  site.  The  minimum  data will include a roll up of AFREP repair total cost to include: Time expended coordinating PM  approval  for  AFREP  repair  authorization.    Man  hours  to  complete  repair  “labor hours” Nomenclature/Stock Number of part being repaired Total cost of item if sourced from  the  supply  chain  Total  cost  of  tangible  resources  expended  to  complete  AFREP repair (e.g. wiring/consumables).  (T-1). 3.6.3.  Assist  technicians  by  interfacing  with  engineering,  Equipment  Specialists  (ES), QA, Air Force Engineering Technical Services, and other field-level agencies. (T-1). 3.6.4.  Accumulate  and  forward  data  requested  by  MAJCOMs  concerning  AFREP.    (T-1). 3.6.5.  Provides  repair authorizations to the MXG QA PIM IAW AFI 21-101. (T-1). 3.6.6.  Ensure  individuals  assigned    AFREP  extra  duties  are  trained,  qualified  and maintains a minimum five-skill level in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. (T-1). 3.6.7.  Submit and monitors Deficiency Reports (DR) for deficiencies discovered during a  Wing/Unit  AFREP  initiative,  IAW  TO  00-35D-54,  USAF  Deficiency  Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, or equivalent PM approved DR process (T-1). 3.6.8.  Review  daily  Awaiting  Parts  (AWP)  and  Mission  Capable  (MICAP)  lists  from maintenance  activities  to  determine  if  the  AFREP  office  can  recommend  to  the appropriate PO, items from those lists. (T-1). 3.6.9.  Provides  quarterly  AFREP  repair  updates  to  MXG/CC.    The  repair  updates  at  a minimum  will  include  nomenclature,  total  cost,  and  total  amount  saved  for  each  item.  (T-1). 3.6.10.  Establish for consumable/expendable items coded with ERRC XB3 to determine reparability of assets prior to permanent disposal. points  within collection unit supply sections   JOHN B. COOPER Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Engineering & Force Protection AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 7 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References PUBLIC LAW 108-136, Sec 802, Quality Control In Procurement of Aviation Critical Safety Items and Related Services, 24 Nov 2003 DOD 4140.1-R, DOD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, 14 Dec 2011 DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003 AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March 2007 AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003 TO 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Reparable Property and the Repair Cycle Asset Control System, 2 Feb 2009 AFI 20-106IP, Management of Aviation Critical Safety Items, 25 January 2006 AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 22 April 2014 AFI 23-101, Air Force Material Management, 14 Dec 16 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 Dec 15 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 Mar 2013 AFMAN 23-122, Material Management Procedures, 14 Dec 2016 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 29 Aug 2013 AFH 23-123V2PT2, Materiel Management Systems, 8 Aug 2013 TO 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Reparable Property and the Repair Cycle Asset Control System, 2 Feb 2009 TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order System Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equipments, 1 Oct 2012 TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 Nov 2011 Prescribed Forms None. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACAT—Acquisition Category AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual  8 AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFREP—Air Force Repair Enhancement Program AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code AFSPC—Air Force Space Command ALC—Air Logistics Center ANG—Air National Guard APML—Acquisition Program Master List AWP—Awaiting Parts CAI—Critical Application Items COR—Contracting Officers Representative CSI—Critical Safety Items DCA—Design Control Activity DIFM—Due-In From Maintenance DLA—Defense Logistics Agency DoD—Department of Defense DOD—Department of Defense DR—Deficiency Report DSOR—Depot Source of Repair ERRC—Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category (Code) ES—Equipment Specialist ESS—Environmental Stress Screening EW—Electronic Warfare IAW—In Accordance With IREP—Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron MAJCOM—Major Command MDA—Milestone Decision Authority MICAP—Mission Capability MML—Material Management Liaison MXG—Maintenance Group OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness  AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 9 PEO—Program Executive Officer PFMR—Project Funds Management Records PM—Program Manager PO—Program Office POC—Point of Contact QA—Quality Assurance RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAE—Service Acquisition Executive SBSS—Standard Base Supply System SMR—Source, Maintenance, Recoverability SOW—Statement of Work SPM—System Program Manager SPML—Sustainment Program Master List TO—Technical Order UMD—Unit Manning Document Terms Awaiting  Parts—The  condition  or  status  of  an  item  (equipment)  needing  additional  part(s)  to repair  it  or  make  it  serviceable  for  use.  Also  sometimes  used  to  describe  the  elapsed  time  a repairable item spends awaiting parts while in the repair cycle. Consumable  Items—Also  known  as  “Consumption”  or  “Expendable”  Items  designated  XB3. Items which are consumed in use or which lose their original identity during periods of use by incorporation  into  or  attachments  upon  another  assembly.  Issued  on  an  as  required  basis  and consist of such supplies as maintenance parts or office supplies. Critical  Application  Item  (CAI)—An item that is essential to weapon system performance or operation,  or  the  preservation  of  life  or  safety  of  operating  personnel,  as  determined  by  the military  services.  The  subset  of  CAI  whose  failure  could  have  catastrophic  or  critical  safety consequences is called CSIs. Contracting Officer Representative (COR)—A COR is an individual designated in accordance with  DFARS  subsection  201.602-2  and  authorized  in  writing  by  the  contracting  officer  to perform specific technical or administrative functions. Critical  Safety  Item  (CSI)—A  part,  assembly,  installation  equipment,  launch  equipment, recovery  equipment,  or  support  equipment  for  an  aircraft  or  aviation  weapons  system  that contains a characteristic any failure, malfunction, or absence of which could cause a catastrophic or  critical  failure  resulting  in  the  loss  or  serious  damage  to  the  aircraft  or  weapons  system,  an unacceptable  risk  of  personal  injury  or  loss  of  life,  or  an  uncommanded  engine  shutdown  that jeopardizes  safety.  Damage  is  considered  serious  or  substantial  when  it  would  be  sufficient  to cause a "Class A" accident or a mishap of severity category I. The determining factor in CSIs is  10 AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 the consequence of failure, not the probability that the failure or consequence would occur. For the  purpose  of  this  instruction  "Critical  Safety  Item",  "Flight  Safety  Critical  Aircraft  Part", "Flight Safety Part", "Safety of Flight Item", and similar terms are synonymous. Expendability,  Recoverability,  Reparability,  Category  (ERRC)—Used  to  categorize  Air Force  inventory  into  various  management  groupings.  The  grouping  determine  the  type  of management used throughout the logistics cycle, designates the process to be used in computing requirements  and  are  used  in  the  correction  and  reporting  of  asset  and  usage  data.  (e.g.,  XB3, XF3, XD2, NF2, NF4). Milestone  Decision  Authority  (MDA)—The  designated  individual  with  overall  responsibility for  a  program.    The  MDA  shall  have  the  authority  to  approve  entry  of  an  acquisition  program into  the  next  phase  of  the  acquisition  process  and  shall  be  accountable  for  cost,  schedule,  and performance reporting to higher authority, including Congressional reporting. Non—Consumable  Item—Also  referred  to  as  a  “non-expendable”  or  “equipment”  item. Durable items that are capable of continuing or repetitive use by an individual or organization. Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness (OSS&E)—OSS&E is an outcome of properly applied systems engineering principles, processes, and practices.  Well-integrated configuration management and control, deficiency reporting and response, reliability, maintainability, integrity, and other engineering practices ensure that base-lined engineering characteristics of systems and end items are not allowed to degrade as a result of maintenance, repairs, parts substitutions, and similar activities. The PM is  responsible for the  assurance OSS&E throughout  the life  cycle of each configuration of each component of each system. Program  Manager  (PM)—The  designated  individual  with  responsibility  for  and  authority  to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user's operational  needs.    The  PM  shall  be  accountable  for  credible  cost,  schedule,  and  performance reporting to the MDA. Project  Funds  Management  Records  (PFMR)—a  record  maintained  in  the  material accounting system to provide for control over that portion of each responsibility center manager operating  budget  programmed  for  purchase  of  expense  materials  from  the  Defense  Business Operations  Funds  stock  activity  fund.  It  is  used  to  record  available  expense  authority,  current month  and  fiscal  year-to-date  sales,  sales  returns,  and  due-outs  for  both  supplies  and  expense equipment. Repairable—Unserviceable  items  that  can  be  economically  repaired  and  restored  to  a serviceable condition. Repair  Recommendation—An idea or proposal to repair an item that is not currently repaired or is beyond the capability of the work center. An AFREP initiative is generated when an asset has a demand level of "greater than three" per calendar year.  All new AFREP initiatives will be staffed through the applicable organizations. Recoverability Code—A one position code assigned to end items and support items to indicate the  recoverability  intention  and  the  level  of  maintenance  authorized  disposition  action  on unserviceable  support  items;  and  for  reparable  items,  it  is  used  to  indicate  the  lowest maintenance level responsible for repair/condemnation and disposition of the item.  AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 11 Source  Code—Codes  assigned  to  end  items  and  support  items  to  indicate  the  manner  of acquiring items for the maintenance, repair, or overhaul of end items. Source, Maintenance, Recoverability (SMR) Code—A code assigned to parts/assemblies that provides maintenance activities with repair level responsibilities, support method and disposition instructions.  The  SMR  codes  are  also  input  into  the  supply  and  maintenance  automated  data system. The uniform SMR code is composed of three parts, consisting of a two position source code, a two position maintenance code, and one position recoverability code. Standard  Base  Supply  System  (SBSS)—A  unified  management  system  that  accomplishes  all Logistics Readiness Squadron/supply activity and service workloads. The Standard Base Supply System  operates  through  the  collective  interactions  of  supply  procedures,  service  procedures, processing routines, and the SBSS computers. Supply  Reports—There  are  many  examples  of  “Supply  Reports”  used  to  record  supply transactions. The Daily Document Register (D04) provides a means for organizations to review all  document  numbers  processed  during  the  day  by  the  SBSS.  The  Project  Funds  Management Records (PFMR) and Organization Cost Center Record Update and Reconciliation (D11) show the  current  status  and  internal  balance  of  the  PFMR  by  supplies  and  equipment.  The  Repair Cycle  Asset  Management  Listing  (D23)  is  used  to  monitor  repair  cycle  assets  and  as  a management product to monitor the stock position and repair cycle status of repairable (DIFM) assets. It may be produced in several sequences and is provided to the customer daily. Technical Data—Information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature, including computer software documentation.  As applied in this publication, it includes information required for the design, development, production, manufacture, assembly, operation, training, testing, repair, maintenance, or modification of defense articles.   12 AFI21-123  3 FEBRUARY 2017 CRITICAL APPLICATION ITEMS & CRITICAL SAFETY ITEMS Attachment 2 A2.1.  CRITICAL  APPLICATION  ITEMS  (CAIs).  For  the  purpose  of  this  instruction,  it  is an item that is essential to weapon system performance or operation, or the operating personnel as determined by AFI 20-106IP, Management of Aviation Critical Safety Items. A2.1.1.  Includes  flight/safety  critical,  life  support,  critical  safety  items  (CSI),  and  nuclear hardened items.  For systems including radar, avionics, munitions, etc, contact the PO for the system to obtain the CAI designation. A2.1.2.  The management of CAIs (contains unique repair and manufacturing qualifications; material/manufacturing process requirements; and extensive testing requirements after repair) is a complex process. These specified procedures rest with the program manager. A2.1.3.  Other  than  TO  and  PO  approved  repairs,  Electronic  Warfare  (EW)  Systems  are Critical  Application  Items  and  prohibited  from  consideration  under  the  AFREP  program. Performing repairs on EW system components may render the entire EW system degraded. Environmental Stress Screening (ESS) of repaired EW components is mandatory. Many EW components cannot be repaired due to electrical characteristics that are not visible or evident without special test facilities and procedures, none of which are available to field personnel or unqualified contractors. A2.2.  CRITICAL  SAFETY  ITEMS  (CSIs).  For  the  purpose  of  this  instruction,  CSIs  are items whose failure may cause loss of life, permanent physical disability or major injury, loss of a system, or significant damage to equipment. A2.2.1.  Special  attention  is  placed  on  CSIs  due  to  potential  catastrophic  or  critical consequences of failure; Public Law 108-136, sec 802 was enacted to address aviation CSIs.  The public law addresses three concerns: A2.2.1.1.  The  Design  Control  Activity  (DCA)  is  responsible  for  processes  related  to identification  and  management  of  CSIs  used  in  procurement,  modification,  repair,  and overhaul of aviation systems. The DCA is defined as the systems command of a military Service  responsible  for  the  airworthiness  certification  of  the  system  in  which  a  CSI  is used. A2.2.1.2.  For contracts involving CSIs, DoD is restricted to DCA approved sources. A2.2.1.3.  The  law  requires  that  CSI  deliveries  and  services  meet  the  technical  and quality requirements established by the DCA. A2.2.2.  DoD  4140.1,  DoD  Supply  Chain  Materiel  Management  Regulation,  establishes procedures  for  the  management  of  aviation  CSIs.  AFI  20-106IP,  Management  of  Aviation Critical  Safety  Items,  addresses  requirements  for  identification,  acquisition,  quality assurance, management, repair, and disposition of aviation CSIs.   