BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 20-119 26 FEBRUARY 2015 Certified Current, 7 July 2016 Logistics ENTERPRISE LOGISTICS GOVERNANCE (ELG) COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication OPR:   AF/A4LX Supersedes: AFGM2014-20-5.3, 25 June 2014 Certified by: AF/A4L (Mr. Eugene Collins) Pages: 11 This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, for the governance of the Air Force Logistics Enterprise.  This publication applies to  all  military  and  civilian  personnel,  including  members  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air National Guard.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  office  of  primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF  Form  847  from  the  field  through  the  functional  chain  of  command.    Requests  for  waivers must  be  submitted  to  the  OPR  listed  above  for  consideration  and  approval.    Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer, commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply  endorsement  by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document replaces Air Force Guidance Memorandum (AFGM) 2014-5.3 and is updated to show changes within the organizational structure of AF/A4, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for  Installations, Environment  & Energy  (SAF/IE) and Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition  (SAF/AQ).    These  changes  necessitated  an  update  to  the  membership  in  the Logistics Council (LC), Logistics Board (LB), and the Logistics Working Group (LWG).  This document  is  updated  to  replace  the  former  Maintenance  Executive  Board  and  Logistics   2  AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015 Readiness Board with supporting working groups/teams to be developed as needed, and to align the Enterprise Logistics Information Technology (ELIT) Board with the ELG structure. AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015   3  Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  Overview  and  Scope.  The  Enterprise  Logistics  Governance  (ELG)  provides  an overarching framework for governing the Air Force Logistics Enterprise by establishing strategy, setting  direction,  making  decisions,  and  overseeing  enterprise-wide  logistics  processes.    The purpose  of  this  GM  is  to  describe  the  ELG  structure,  roles  and  responsibilities  and  their relationship to Enterprise Logistics Strategy (ELS).  While the ELG is a decision making body, it does not alter the statutory, functional, or program execution authorities of its members. 1.2.  General Guidance.  The objectives of the ELG are to: 1.2.1.  Provide  an  overarching  framework  for  governing  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Enterprise by establishing, maintaining and implementing an ELS. 1.2.2.  Validate alignment of the ELS strategic priorities with Department of Defense (DoD) and  Air  Force  strategic  priorities  and  inform  the  Air  Force  Strategic  Planning  and Programming Process (SP3). 1.2.3.  Establish initiatives, as needed, in support of the ELS. 1.2.4.  Provide  guidance  and  make  decisions,  within  its  scope,  in  support  of  the  ELS  by setting direction, tracking strategy execution and performance toward a strategic vision; and overseeing enterprise-wide logistics processes. 1.2.5.  Interface  with  the  Air  Force  Corporate  Structure  (AFCS)  and  other  Air  Force governing bodies as necessary to conduct ELG responsibilities. 1.3.  Structure.  The  ELG  is  a  hierarchical  four-tier  structure  comprised  of  the  following governance  bodies:    Logistics  Council  (LC),  Logistics  Board  (LB),  Logistics  Working  Group (LWG)  and  supporting  Boards/Working  Groups  such  as  the  Enterprise  Logistics  Information Technology (ELIT) Board.  See Chapter 3 of this instruction for more information on the ELG governance bodies.   4  AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  The Director of Logistics, Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4L) shall: 2.1.1.  Assume the roles and responsibilities of the ELG Secretariat in order to administer the ELG. 2.1.2.  Assign an ELG Secretariat lead. 2.2.  The Director of Resource Integration, Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and  Mission  Support  (AF/A4P)  and  Director  of  Logistics,  Air  Force  Materiel  Command (AFMC/A4) shall: 2.2.1.  Manage  the  ELIT  governance.    ELIT  supports  the  ELS  and  is  aligned  to  Director, Business  Transformation  &  Deputy  Chief  Management  Officer  (SAF/US(M))  information technology processes and policy. 2.3.  The ELG Secretariat Lead shall: 2.3.1.  Serve as the single point of contact for all ELG bodies and issues. 2.3.2.  Provide  expertise  to  advance  ELG  processes  to  enhance  high-level  executive governance. 2.3.3.  Integrate ELS inputs per ELG direction. 2.3.4.  Maintain a list of action items for each ELG body and track items through closure. 2.3.5.  Maintain and perform the necessary functional and technical coordination of the ELG policy. 2.3.6.  Maintain documentation of ELG processes. 2.3.7.  Administer the standard work of the ELG. 2.3.8.  Verify  initiative  packages  meet  documented  ELG  criteria  prior  to  board  meetings and/or distribution to members. 2.3.9.  Track, monitor and report on the status of ELG initiatives on a regular basis. AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015   5  Chapter 3 ELG STRUCTURE 3.1.  Logistics  Council  (LC).  The LC provides guidance or direction to the LB on operational issues affecting logistics, and is informed by the LB of logistics issues affecting operations.  The LC  further  provides  guidance  and  makes  decisions  on  issues  elevated  by  the  LB  chair  through the  ELG  decision-making  process.    Additionally,  the  LC  is  responsible  for  interfacing  and communicating with internal and external organizations and structures regarding the ELS. 3.1.1.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Acquisition  (SAF/AQ)  and  the  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4) serve as co-chairs of the LC. 3.1.1.1.  The  LC  chairs  retain  authority  over  all  LC  permanent  voting  membership changes.    The  LC  chairs  may  also  request  the  participation  of  non-member  advisors  to provide expertise, guidance and to assist in identifying and assessing the impacts or risks of potential decisions. 3.1.2.  Members of the LC are as follows:  AF/A3, MAJCOM/CVs and NGB/CF. 3.2.  Logistics Board (LB).  The LB develops, refines and approves the ELS.  Additionally, the LB  sets  strategic  priorities  and  initiatives  for  the  logistics  enterprise;  initiates  changes  to  the ELS; approves performance metrics to measure progress; and advocates for resources to support the ELS within Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the Joint  Staff.    The  LB  oversees  strategy  implementation  by  providing  champions  for  ELS initiatives.  The LB reviews metrics to constantly assess current state performance and adjust the ELS as required. 3.2.1.  The AF/A4 serves as the chair of the LB. 3.2.1.1.  The  LB  chair  oversees  the  ELS,  provides  direction  to  the  LWG  Chair  and delegates authority as appropriate. 3.2.1.2.  The  LB  chair  retains  authority  over  all  LB  permanent  voting  membership changes.    The  LB  chair  may  also  request  the  participation  of  non-member  advisors  to provide expertise, guidance, and to assist in identifying and assessing the impacts or risks of potential decisions. 3.2.2.  Members  of  the  LB  are:    AF/A4  Deputy,  AF/A4L,  AF/A4P,  SAF/AQD,  ACC/A4, AETC/A4/7,  AFGSC/A4/7,  AFMC/A4,  AFRC/A4,  AFSOC/A4,  AFSPC/A4/7,  AMC/A4, NGB/A4, PACAF/A4/7, USAFE/A4/7, AFLCMC/CC and AFSC/CC. 3.2.2.1.  AFMC/A4 is the sole designated voting member from AFMC. 3.2.3.  Members  of  the  LB  create,  align  and  assess  the  ELS  implementation;  determine courses  of  action;  and  provide  direction  to  the  LWG  representative  within  their  own organization.    Additionally,  LB  members  communicate  the  ELS  internally  to  the  logistics community  and  externally  to  other  functional  areas  and  stakeholders  and  advocate  for resources to support the ELS within the HAF, OSD and Joint Staff.   6  AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015 3.3.  Logistics  Working  Group  (LWG).  The  LWG  provides  inputs  to  and  assists  the  LB  in creating  and  revising  the  ELS;  refining  and  reviewing  top-level  metrics  for  LB  approval.  Additionally,  the  LWG  ensures  implementation  of  current  strategic  priorities  and  initiatives  as well as assesses alignment of new internal and external high priority requirements and issues.  If aligned  to  strategy,  the  LWG  will  initiate  appropriate  action  or  recommend  LB  approval.    The LWG  fosters  and  proposes  new  concepts  and  projects  for  LB  consideration  and  provides monthly oversight activities regarding strategic priorities and initiatives. 3.3.1.  The AF/A4L serves as chair of the LWG. 3.3.1.1.  The  LWG  chair  maintains  ELG  processes;  evaluates  ELS  feedback  from  the membership;  oversees  appropriate  follow  on  actions;  and  facilitates  decision  making processes. 3.3.1.2.  The  LWG  chair  retains  authority  over  all  LWG  permanent  voting  membership changes.  The LWG chair may also request the participation of non-member advisors to provide expertise, guidance and to assist in identifying and assessing the impacts or risks of potential decisions. 3.3.1.3.  The LWG chair provides functional direction to the ELIT Governance to support the ELS. 3.3.2.  Members  of  the  LWG  are:    Deputies  from  AF/A4L,  AF/A4P,  SAF/AQD,  ACC/A4, AETC/A4/7,  AFGSC/A4/7,  AFMC/A4,  AFRC/A4,  AFSOC/A4,  AFSPC/A4/7,  AMC/A4, NGB/A4, PACAF/A4/7, USAFE/A4/7, AFLCMC/CV and AFSC/CV. 3.3.2.1.  Although  AFMC  retains  multiple  members,  AFMC/A4  (Deputy)  is  the  sole designated voting member from AFMC. 3.3.3.  LWG  members  assess  ELS  implementation;  scope  initiatives;  drive  execution  of action  items/initiatives;  and  make  recommendations  for  LB-required  decisions.    In accordance with LB direction, the LWG resolves enterprise-level issues and/or recommends a  course  of  action  for  LB  discussion/decision.    Additionally,  LWG  members  advocate  for resources to support the ELS. AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015   7  Figure 3.1.  ELG Structure 3.4.  Enterprise Logistics Information Technology (ELIT) Board.  The ELIT Board provides governance  for  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Information  Technology  (IT)  enterprise.    The  ELIT Board ensures alignment of applicable Logistics IT policies with the ELS and creates Logistics IT  programs  and  processes  that  support  the  ELS  objectives.    The  ELIT  Board  also  ensures communication of the ELS to Air Force IT governance forums.  3.4.1.  The AF/A4P and AFMC/A4 serve as the co-chairs for the ELIT Board. 3.4.2.  The ELIT Board Co-Chairs oversee the Logistics IT Strategy; provide IT guidance to the  LWG  and  delegate  authority  as  appropriate;  maintain  responsibility  for  an  ELIT Secretariat  and  any  sub-ELIT  governance  entities;  determine  ELIT  governance  procedures; and  retain  authority  over  final  approval  of  all  ELIT  Board  permanent  voting  membership changes.    ELIT  Board  Co-Chairs  also  advocate  for  information  technology  resources  to support the Logistics IT Strategy and the ELS within HAF, OSD and Joint Staff. 3.4.3.  Members  of  the  ELIT  Board  are:    Representatives  from  the  AF/A4P,  AFMC/A4, ACC/A4,  AETC/A4/7,  AFDW/A4,  AFGSC/A4/7,  AFRC/A4,  AFSOC/A4,  AFSPC/A4/7, AMC/A4, NGB/A4, PACAF/A4/7, USAFE/A4/7, AF/A4L and SAF/AQD. 3.4.4.  ELIT  Board  Advisors  consist  of  representatives  from  the  SAF/AQ,  SAF/CIO  A6, SAF/US(M),  Air  Force  Program  Executive  Office/Business  and  Enterprise  Systems the  Air  Force  Program  Excutive  Office/Command,  Control, (AFPEO/BES)  and Enterprise LogisticsStrategy (ELS)Strategic Initiatives OversightCommunicateProvidesguidance on operational issues affecting logistics/informed by LB of logistics issues affecting operationsProvide guidanceas requiredExternal (HAF/SAF/DoD/Services/MAJCOMs)Develop& Update ELS; Set Priorities and InitiativesOversee initiativeexecution Internal;External (HAF/SAF/DoD/Services/MAJCOMS)Assists LB in developing ELS, Priorities and InitiativesDriveinitiative executionInternal; External (MAJCOMStaffs,Services)Corporate / ExternalIntegrationStrategic Development& AlignmentRefinement& IntegrationAFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015 Communications,  Intelligence  and  Network  (AFPEO/C3I&N)  .    The  Co-Chairs  have  the authority to designate additional advisors. 3.4.5.  Members of the ELIT Board create and approve a Logistics IT strategy that addresses the IT requirements of the ELS; provide IT guidance to the LWG representatives within their respective  organizations,  and  communicate  the  Logistics  IT  requirements  within  the  larger Air Force logistics and information technology communities.   8   JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015   9  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure DoD—Department of Defense ELG—Enterprise Logistics Governance ELIT—Enterprise Logistics Information Technology ELS—Enterprise Logistics Strategy HAF—Headquarters Air Force IT—Information Technology LB—Logistics Board LC—Logistics Council LWG—Logistics Working Group MAJCOM—Major Command OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SP3—Strategic Planning and Programming Process Terms Air  Force  Corporate  Structure  (AFCS)—The  AFCS  embodies  the  corporate  review  process for HQ USAF.  It does not replace the functional staff but, rather, enhances it by allowing time critical or time limited functional reviews at the appropriate levels.  The deliberative components   10  AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015 of the Corporate Structure are the Air Force Council (AFC), the Air Force Board (AFB), the Air Force  Group  (AFG)  and  the  thirteen  Mission  and  Mission  Support  Panels.    This  structure increases  management  effectiveness  and improves  cross-functional  decision-making  by providing  a  forum  in  which  senior  Air  Force  leadership  can  apply  their  collective  judgment, experience,  and  analysis  to  major  programs,  objectives  and  issues.    This  process  balances programs  among  mission  areas,  between  force  structure  and  support,  and  between  readiness, modernization and transformation.  Additionally, this approach ensures the Air Force program is capabilities-based  and  supports  the  Joint  warfighter.    Only  military  or  DOD  civilian  personnel assigned to the Air Staff or Office of the Secretary of the Air Force may serve as members of the corporate structure. Logistics  Enterprise—Logistics  Enterprise  consists  of  the  logistics  architecture,  organization, personnel, processes and governance and includes supply support, storage, maintenance, support equipment, contract services, software and data management and all logistics personnel. Enterprise  Logistics  Governance  (ELG)—The  ELG  provides  an  overarching  framework  for governing the Air Force Logistics Enterprise by establishing strategy, setting direction, making decisions,  and  overseeing  enterprise-wide  logistics  processes.    While  the  ELG  is  a  decision-making  body,  it  does  not  alter  the  statutory,  functional,  or  program  execution  authorities  of  its members. Enterprise Logistics Strategy (ELS)—The ELS is the strategy that guides the direction of the Logistics enterprise.   It  consists of a mission,  vision,  priorities, goals,  objectives and initiatives that describe the future operation of the Air Force Logistics Enterprise. Logistics Council (LC)—The LC provides guidance or direction to the LB on operational issues affecting  logistics,  and  is  informed  by  the  LB  of  logistics  issues  affecting  operations.    The  LC further  provides  guidance  and  makes  decisions  on  issues  elevated  by  the  LB  chair  through  the ELG  decision-making  process.    Additionally,  the  LC  is  responsible  for  interfacing  and communicating  with  internal  and  external  organizations  and  structures  regarding  the  ELS,  and for  providing  MAJCOM/CV  communication  on  logistics  issues  with  implications  beyond  the logistics enterprise. Logistics Board (LB)—The LB develops, refines and approves the ELS.  Additionally, the LB sets the strategic priorities and initiatives for the logistics enterprise; initiates changes to the ELS; approves  performance  metrics  to  measure  progress;  and  advocates  for  resources  to  support  the ELS  within  the  HAF,  OSD,  and  Joint  Staff.    The  LB  oversees  strategy  implementation  by providing  champions  for  ELS  initiatives.    The  LB  reviews  metrics  to  constantly  assess  current state performance and adjust ELS as required. Logistics Working Group (LWG)—The LWG provides inputs to and assists the LB in creating and revising the ELS,  refining  and  reviewing top-level  metrics for  LB  approval.    Additionally, the LWG ensures implementation of current strategic priorities and initiatives as well as assesses alignment  of  new  internal  and  external  high  priority  requirements  and  issues.    If  aligned  to strategy, the LWG will initiate appropriate action or recommend LB approval.  The LWG fosters and  proposes  new  concepts  and  projects  for  LB  consideration  and  provides  monthly  oversight activities regarding strategic priorities and initiatives. Enterprise  Logistics  Information  Technology  (ELIT)  Board—The  ELIT  Board  provides governance  for  the  Air  Force  Logistics  IT  Enterprise.    The  ELIT  Board  ensures  alignment  of AFI20-119  26 FEBRUARY 2015   11  applicable Logistics IT policies with the ELS; and creates Logistics IT programs and processes that support the ELS objectives.  The ELIT Board also ensures communication of the ELS to Air Force IT governance forums.  