BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-150 6 JANUARY 2017 Maintenance AIRCRAFT REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE CROSS-SERVICING  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   This instruction is available for downloading from the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A4LM   Certified by: AF/A4  (Lt Gen John B. Cooper) Pages: 10     This  publication  implements  AFPD  25-3,  Allied  Logistics  Support,  relative  to  leveraging maintenance capability across allied nations and is consistent with AFPD 21-1, Maintenance of Military Materiel.  This  AFI provides the basic framework and guidance for aircraft repair and maintenance  services,  a  sub-category  of  Logistics  Support,  Supplies,  or  Services  (LSSS)  in accordance  with  AFI  25-301,  Acquisition  Cross  Servicing  Agreements  (ACSAs).    This publication  does  not  cover  agreements  with  other  US  Military  Services  or  other  government agencies, US or foreign non-military organizations, or commercial contractors.  This instruction applies  to  all  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs)  and  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG),  along  with their  subordinates.    MAJCOMS  may  supplement  this  instruction.    Supplements  must  identify required  deviations  (applicability,  variance,  and/or  differences  in  organizational  placement  of responsibilities/processes) on the supplement with the abbreviation “(DEV)”.  Place the “DEV” entry  after  the  paragraph  number  and  directly  preceding  the  affected  text  (e.g.  (AMC)  (DEV) Use  the...  or  (ADDED-AMC)  (DEV)  Use  the...).    All  supplements  and  addendums  shall  be submitted  to  AF/A4L  for  approval.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  and  T-3”)  number  following  the compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternatively, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory  provisions  in  this  publication  (e.g.  “will,”  “will  not,”  “shall,”  “shall  not,”  “  must,” 2 AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 “must  not,”  etc.)  by  military  members  is  a  violation  of  Article  92  of  the  UCMJ,  or  similar language  in  the  paragraphs  or  sections  that  contain  these  mandatory  provisions  or  prohibitions IAW  AFI  33-360.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication  are  maintained  In  Accordance  With  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. The use of the name or mark of any specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not imply endorsement by the Air Force.  AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 3 Chapter 1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1.1.  Definition  and  Purpose.  Provide  guidance  to  MAJCOMs  and  subordinate  units  for establishing a capability of exchanging Aircraft Repair and Maintenance Services (ARMS) with eligible partner nations and organizations. 1.1.1.  For the purposes of this instruction, ARMS is defined as the actual performance of an aircraft  repair  or  maintenance  service  without  a  qualified  technician  of  the  aircraft  owning government/organization being present. 1.1.2.  Only  nations  or  organizations  with  a  concluded  Acquisition  and  Cross-Servicing Agreement  (ACSA)  are  authorized  to  exchange  ARMS  as  long  as  they  have  an  ARMS Implementing Arrangements (IA).  Wing or MAJCOM ACSA Program Managers (PM) can provide a list of ACSA eligible nations/organizations; and/or those with existing ARMS IAs. 1.1.3.  An  Acquisition  and  Cross-Servicing  Agreement  refers  to  a  legal  instrument  entered into  under  the  authority  of  Title  10,  US  Code  (USC),  Subtitle  A,  Part  IV,  Chapter  138, Subchapter  1,  Acquisition  and  Cross-Servicing  Agreements,  which  authorizes the acquisition and reciprocal provision of LSSS.  “Maintenance services” is an LSSS category.  However, due to the complicated nature of exchanging ARMS, an IA must be put in place to ensure  aircraft  safety,  airworthiness,  and  proper  maintenance  accountability  & documentation.    An  IA  is  an  international  agreement,  supplementary  to  the  ACSA  that  can never  exceed  the  scope  of  the  basic  ACSA.    IAs  provide  the  needed  details  to  execute  a complicated LSSS transaction such as the exchange of ARMS.  IAs specify additional terms and conditions, types of support, reimbursement methods, and provides key points of contact.  ACSA PMs are the lead for establishing IAs through the appropriate Combatant Commander (COCOM)  IAW  AFI  25-301.    NOTE:    An  ACSA  may  also  be  referred  to  as  a  Logistics Support  Agreement,  Mutual  Support  Agreements,  or  Mutual  Logistics  Support  Agreement.  ACSAs  allow  for  the  reimbursable  exchange  of  LSSS  between  the  Armed  Forces  and military forces of nations or international organizations with which the US has a concluded ACSA. 1.1.4.  All instances of ARMS exchanges are accomplished IAW AFI 25-301; managed and overseen by an appointed ACSA PM.  Units exchanging ARMS must coordinate with their Wing  or  MAJCOM  PM to  gain  approval  and  document  the  exchange.    Wing  level  PMs,  if appointed, are within the LRS.  MAJCOM PMs are normally within the A4R Division.  All MAJCOM A4s are USAF ACSA authorities.  Maintenance unit approvers must ensure they meet  all  the  requirements  of  paragraph  1.2.2  prior  to  agreeing  to  accomplish  any  cross-maintenance work. 1.1.5.  MAJCOMs  and  Wings,  must  exercise  caution  to  ensure  ACSA  ARMS  IAs  are  not established for routine support of another nation.  ACSA is not a sustainment tool and there is no funding or authority to authorize manpower, equipment, spares, consumables, or other resources  for  the  sole  purpose  of  supporting  a  partner  nation.    ACSA  is  never  the  primary means for obtaining LSSS, including ARMS.  ACSA intent is to provide commanders with a flexible  tool  to  obtain  or  provide  LSSS  when  mission  needs  prevent  self-support  IAW  AFI 25-301. 4 AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 1.2.  Applicability.  MAJCOMs  and  subordinate  units  having like  airframe  repair  and maintenance  capability  can  entertain  an  ARMS  support  request,  either  receiving  or  providing service with a nation/organization having a concluded ACSA and ARMS IA. 1.2.1.  ACSA  guidance,  authority,  coordination  and  approval  delegation,  event  tracking, reporting,  reimbursement,  negotiation  of  IAs  and  Implementing  Instructions  (II)  are  all accomplished IAW AFI 25-301 and overseen by the appropriate ACSA PM. training  and  certification,  documentation  and  material 1.2.2.  Aircraft  maintenance, management  will  be  performed  IAW  AFI  21-101,  Aircraft  and  Equipment  Maintenance Management,  AFI  23-101,  Air  Force  Materiel  Management;  AFMAN  23-122,  Materiel Management  Procedures;  Technical  Order (TO)  00-20-1,  Aerospace  Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and Procedures; AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training  Program;  AFI  36-2650,  Maintenance  Training;  and  TO  00-20-2,  Maintenance Data  Documentation  (MDD)  to  include  MAJCOM  Supplemental  guidance  and  Foreign Government (FG) guidance when USAF personnel are approved to perform maintenance on FG Mission Design Series (MDS). AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 5 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Lead Command Responsibility.  Lead Command will: 2.1.1.  Provide support to the MAJCOM requesting the development of MDS specific ARMS IAs.    The  MAJCOM  ACSA  PM  is  the  OPR  for  developing  ARMS  IAs  IAW  AFI  25-301.  ARMS  IAs  establish  POCs,  common  terminology,  specify  task  lists,  and  outline responsibilities of both international partner and USAF units involved in cross-maintenance activities. 2.1.2.  Provide  support  to  the  using  MAJCOM  in  the  development  of  an  MDS  specific ARMS  Cross-Servicing  IA  that  is  approved  with  the  FG’s  Service,  which  outlines  the responsibilities of the FG and USAF units involved in ARMS Cross-Servicing. 2.1.3.  Vet  MAJCOM  generated  minimum  maintenance  tasks  list  with  the  MDS  Program Office. 2.2.  MAJCOM Responsibilities. The MAJCOM will: 2.2.1.  Determine  need  and  seek  delegation  of  authority  from  appropriate  geographic COCOM to begin ARMS IA negotiations.  The appropriate COCOM is the one in which the partner  nation/organization  is  assigned.    The  MAJCOM  OPR  for  IA  development  is  the MAJCOM ACSA PM IAW AFI 25-301. 2.2.2.  Direct  the  ACSA  PM  to  coordinate  with  other  applicable  MAJCOMs  (aircraft  lead and/or  using  commands),  partner  nation,  and  COCOM  to  develop,  finalize,  and  maintain MDS  specific  ARMS  IAs.    ARMS  IAs  establish  POCs,  common  terminology,  specify  task lists,  and  outline  responsibilities  of  both  international  partner  and  USAF  units  involved  in cross-maintenance  activities.    The  COCOM  and  MAJCOM  ACSA  PM  will  keep  current signed  copies  of  ARMS  IAs  IAW  AFI  25-301,  Chapter  4.    ARMS  IAs  are  also  retained within  the  ACSA  Global  Automated  Tracking  and  Reporting  System  (AGTARS),  a  world-wide library for concluded ACSAs, IAs, and individual transactions. 2.2.3.  Develop  and  maintain  an  approved  and  agreed  to  minimum  maintenance  tasks  list (e.g.  Foreign  Military  Sales  (FMS)  MDS  C17,  C130  or  F15)  in  coordination  with  Lead Commands and FG. 2.2.4.  In  coordination  with  the  Lead  Command  and  FG,  develop  a  MDD  procedure  to capture minimum MDD requirements to account for cross-servicing performed by USAF and FG maintainers. 2.2.5.  Identify support equipment and assets required to accomplish minimum maintenance task list and ensure airframe equipment compatibility with both national standards.  NOTE: The USAF is not authorized to increase inventories and/or preposition equipment for the sole purpose of supporting a partner nation. 2.2.6.  Once minimum maintenance tasks certification list is vetted through Lead Command, generate  a  list  of  qualified  personnel  for  the  agreed  maintenance  tasks  as  required.    Set frequency for minimum task requirements to maintain USAF and FG proficiencies. 6 AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 2.2.6.1.  In  coordination  with  participating  FG  provide  a  training  program  schedule  for designated personnel to include period, place, responsible unit and content of training. 2.2.7.  Establish  a process to  communicate USAF and FG maintenance cross-talk/cross-tell, lessons learned and limiting factors. 2.3.  Implementing Arrangements.  ARMS IAs must minimally establish: 1) USAF and partner nation/organization Point of Contact (POC) for authorizing support request, and reimbursement/ Financial  Management  POCs;  2)  the  need  to  follow  ACSA  processing  procedures  of  both  AFI 25-301  and  component  MAJCOM  supplements;  and  3)  ARMS  activities  are  established  IAW para  1.2.2  requirements  of  this  AFI.    There  should  also  be  an  attached  master  task  list  that includes required training and/or recognition of each nations training certification process.  The IA must also establish agreement on authorized maintenance documentation procedures. 2.4.  Materiel  Management.  Each  spare  part  request  is  considered  on  a  case-by-case  basis, evaluated  for  legal  authority,  capability  to  support,  and  the  supporting  entity’s  mission  impact prior to the support request being progressed to the MAJCOM and /or COCOM ACSA manager for  authorization  IAW  AFI  25-301.    The  capability  to  support  release  of  the  part  may  include gaining  authority  from  a  program  outside  of  ACSA  dependent  on  the  platforms  support arrangements such as FMS or a Program Office manager.  Instructions concerning the authority to  exchange  logistics  support  with  FG  for  the  purpose  of  recovering  Not  Mission  Capable (NMC)  aircraft  are  found  in  AFMAN  23-122  series  instructions.    Always  contact  applicable wing or MAJCOM ACSA PM to help facilitate spares/consumables support needed to execute a maintenance activity. 2.5.  Wing/Unit Responsibilities. Wings/Units will: 2.5.1.  Maintain  current  copies  of  applicable/concluded  ACSAs  and  ARMS  IAs  and  ensure the most current task list is attached IAW AFI 25-301. (T-1). 2.5.2.  Designate in writing the USAF aircraft maintenance personnel trained and certified to perform maintenance tasks on MAJCOM-approved FG aircraft. (T-2). 2.5.3.  In  coordination  with  MAJCOM,  develop  and  maintain  an  ARMS  Cross-Servicing MDS Specific Master Training Plan (MTP) IAW AFI 36-2201. (T-2). 2.5.4.  Conduct  an  initial  local  flight  line  maintenance  safety  orientation/familiarization session with FG/USAF unit. (T-1). 2.5.5.  The  Maintenance  Group  (MXG)  may  appoint  an  unfunded  Aircraft  Repair  and Maintenance Servicing Cross-Servicing Manager to oversee approved cross-servicing events. (T-2). 2.5.6.  The  MXG  will  ensure  designated  QA  personnel  are  familiar  with  MAJCOM/FG agreed maintenance tasks, including differences between USAF and FG technical guidance, before evaluating maintenance performed on FG aircraft. (T-1). 2.5.7.  All  instances  of  cross-maintenance  must  be  overseen  and  documented  IAW  25-301 and the appropriate wing or MAJCOM ACSA PM.  (T-2). 2.6.  QA  Requirements.  QA  will  be  performed  IAW  AFI  21-101  and  using  MAJCOM supplemental guidance.  (T-1). AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 7 2.7.  Red  X,  In  Process  Inspection  (IPI)  and  MDD  Requirements.  When  designated  USAF and  FG  maintenance  personnel  are  performing  the  MAJCOM  outlined  aircraft  repair  and maintenance cross-servicing tasks, the designated maintainers will perform Red X, IPI and MDD requirements  IAW  AFI  21-101,  TO  00-20-1  and  TO  00-20-2,  to  include  using  MAJCOM supplemental guidance and FG equivalent Instructions (as agreed per IA). (T-1). 2.8.  Aircraft  Status.  When  FG  maintenance  personnel  are  performing  ARMS  cross-servicing tasks  on  USAF  aircraft,  USAF  personnel  will  status  aircraft  IAW  AFI  21-103,  Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting. (T-1).  JOHN B. COOPER Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Engineering & Force Protection 8 AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Title 10, United States Code, Subtitle A, Part IV, Chapter 138, Subchapter I, Acquisition and Cross-    Servicing Agreements, 2 Jan 2013 DODD 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements, 28 April 2003 AFPD 25-3, Allied Logistics Support, 26 Jun 2012 AFPD 21-1, Management of Military Materiel, 29 Oct 2015 AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 May 2015 AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 26 Jan 2012 AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, 29 Jan 2016 AFI 25-301, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements, 3 June 2016 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 Dec 2015 AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 Sep 2010 AFI 36-2650, Maintenance Training, 20 May 2014 AFMAN 23-122, Materiel Management Procedures, 9 Feb 2016 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 25-3, Allied Logistics Support, 18 Jun 2016 TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and Procedures, 1 April 2016 TO 00-20-2, Maintenance Data Documentation, 1 Nov 2012 Adopted Form. AF IMT 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACSA—Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AGATRS—ACSA Global Automated Tracking and Reporting System AMC— Air Mobility Command AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 9 ARMS—Aircraft Repair and Maintenance Services CJCSI—Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction COCOM—Combatant Commander DEV—Deviation DOD—Department of Defense DODD—Department of Defense Directive FG—Foreign Government FMS—Foreign Military Sales IA—Implementing Arrangement IAW—In Accordance With II—Implementing Instruction IPI—In Process Inspection LSSS—Logistics Support, Supplies, or Services MAJCOM—Major Command MDD—Maintenance Data Documentation MDS—Mission Design Series MXG—Maintenance Group NMC—Not Mission Capable OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility POC – Point of Contact PM—Program Manager QA—Quality Assurance TO—− Technical Order USAF—United States Air Force USC—United States Code Terms Acquisition  and  Cross-Servicing  Agreement—A  legal  instrument  entered  into  under  the authority of 10 USC 2342 that authorizes the reciprocal provision of logistic support, supplies, or services. A Cross- Servicing Agreement is an international agreement. Implementing  Arrangements  (IA)—A  supplementary  arrangement  that  prescribes  details, terms,  and  conditions  to  implement  an  ACSA  in  more  defined  levels  of  activity  than  ACSAs themselves.  They  must  be  completely  consistent  with  associated  ACSAs  and  Department  of Defense  Directive  2010.9.  Implementing  Arrangements  that  do  not  involve  the  obligation  of 10 AFI21-150  6 JANUARY 2017 funds  may  extend  for  an  indefinite  period  of  time.  An  implementing  arrangement  is  an international agreement. Implementing Instructions (II)—IIs address the type of support exchanged, units involved, the duration required, any limitations involved, costs incurred, fund cite(s) to which payment will be transferred, billing cycles, and so on. IIs are distributed to all organizations identified in the II, to include applicable foreign POCs. Since IIs primarily address in-house administrative procedures and responsibilities for handling transactions, they  are not  international  agreements and are not signed by both national forces. Lead Command—A SECAF designated organization that serves as lead advocate for a weapon system during the entire life cycle.   Lead Command s provide PPB input to CFLs in support of the process of developing and maintaining a force structure with a balance of complementary capabilities for the designated weapon system.  The Lead Commands define and provide guidance and resolution for all using and supporting organizations. A Lead Command may also be a Using Command. Using Command—ANG, MAJCOM, NAF, FOA or DRU identified in relation to an assigned weapon system.  Using Command advocate for sustainment requirements of assigned weapon systems through the Lead Command.  Using Commands encompass assigned units that employ and operate weapons systems.  