BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-124 12 JANUARY 2017 Maintenance OIL ANALYSIS PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A4LM  Supersedes:  AFI21-124, 14 March 2013  Certified by: SAF/AQ  (Ms. Darlene Costello) Pages: 12 This  instruction  implements  AFPD  21-1,  Maintenance  of  Military  Materiel,  and  Joint Publication AR 700–132/ OPNAVINST 4731.1C/AFI(I) 21-131, Joint Oil Analysis Program. It provides procedural guidance and assigns responsibility for managing the Air Force Oil Analysis Program and for participating in the Joint Oil Analysis Program.    this their  subordinates.  MAJCOMS  may  supplement This  instruction  applies  to  all  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs)  and  the  Air  National  Guard (ANG),  along  with instruction. Supplements  must  identify  required  deviations  (applicability,  variance,  and/or  differences  in organizational placement of responsibilities/processes) on the supplement with the abbreviation “(DEV)”.  Place the “DEV” entry after the paragraph number and directly preceding the affected text (e.g. (AMC) (DEV) Use the... or (ADDED-AMC) (DEV) Use the...).  All supplements and addendums  are  submitted  to  AF/A4L  for  approval,  refer  recommended  changes  and  questions about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternatively, to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management 2 AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 System  (AFRIMS).  The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance items. 1.  Program.  Oil  Analysis  is  the  process  of  analyzing  oil  and  other  fluids  used  to  lubricate  or operate mechanical equipment, evaluating the condition of the fluid or the equipment from which the fluid originated, and recommending maintenance actions to the equipment operating activity. An  Oil  Analysis  Program  (OAP)  ensures  timely  and  accurate  oil  analysis  support  through  the strategic  location  of  oil  analysis  laboratories  and  the  standardization  of  procedures,  data elements, analytical instrumentation and diagnostic techniques. The Joint Oil Analysis Program (JOAP) is a combined effort of the Army, Navy and Air Force to set-up and maintain a standard program. Oil analysis requires a centrally-managed program and the integration of AF OAP and JOAP plans. 2.  Objectives.  The  overall  objective  of  the  AF  OAP  is  to  detect  oil-wetted  air  and  space equipment  failures  before  serious  malfunction  or  secondary  damage  occurs.  The  specific objectives of the AF OAP and JOAP programs are as follows: 2.1.  Improve  the  operational  safety,  readiness  and  economy  of  military  equipment  through the use of on-board and off-board oil analysis, a condition-monitoring concept that relies on the detection and measurement of wear-metals in the fluid. 2.2.  Collect and analyze oil analysis data in order to increase the effectiveness of oil analysis techniques in the diagnosis of potential equipment failures and lubricant condition; to provide wear metal and lubricant physical property data to the various weapons system managers and others, as required. 2.3.  Ensure oil analysis plans and operations are integrated (where practical) to provide: 2.3.1.  Standard  laboratory  techniques,  procedures,  data,  calibration  standards,  and analytical instruments. 2.3.2.  Inter-service oil analysis support to all military departments. 2.3.3.  The most cost–effective means of determining the condition  of lubricants,  fluids, and mechanical system through the use of various analytical techniques. 3.  Guidance.  The OAP helps aircraft technicians and supervisors to make informed, condition-based,  preventive  maintenance  decisions,  and  can  reduce  equipment  costs,  increase  equipment availability, and reduce in-flight risk. This is primarily achieved by monitoring the concentration of  wear  metals  in  fluids  used  to  lubricate  or  power  mechanical  systems.  To  monitor  engine health,  the  OAP  uses  a  variety  of  testing  mechanisms.  These  include:  Atomic  Emission  (AE) spectrometric  wear  metal  analysis,  Magnetic  Chip  Detectors  (MCD),  MCDs  with  on-board AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 3 sensors,  and  Scanning  Electron  Microscope/Energy  Dispersive  X-ray  (SEM/EDX)  system technology. To the extent deemed cost effective, Engine Operating Time (EOT) shall be used as the  standard  time  interval  between  oil  analysis  sampling  when  in-service  engines  are  equipped with an Engine Monitoring System (EMS) or other operating time recorders. For engines without EMS or other operating time recorders, oil analysis trending intervals will be standardized based upon Engine Flying Hours (EFH). 3.1.  Analyze oil samples from  transient aircraft  IAW  applicable technical  data  and owning activity requirements. 3.1.1.  For  transient  aircraft  with  an  EMS,  at  bases  without  the  capability  to  download EOT data, EFH shall be used to continue oil analysis trending. 3.2.  Responsible activities must ensure the resultant data is accurate and given promptly to all customers so they can effectively monitor the condition of their equipment. 3.2.1.  AF  OAP  laboratories  will  periodically  (as  specified  by  MAJCOM  supplemental guidance) evaluate response times to optimize support of the customer. (T-2). 3.3.  Laboratory operation. 3.3.1.  Each OAP laboratory must be certified IAW TOs 33-1-37-1/-2, Joint Oil Analysis Program Laboratory Manual, Volumes 1 and 2. (T-1). 3.3.2.  Seek  to  maximize  inter-service  use  of  existing  laboratories  through  laboratory consolidation, workload sharing, and use of standardized instrumentation, techniques and procedures. (T-1). 3.3.3.  AF  OAP  laboratories  must  provide  oil  analysis  services  at  no  charge  for  all  US Government,  NATO  and  friendly  Foreign  Military  Sales  (FMS)  aircraft.  These  services include  analyzing  oil  samples  from  transient  aircraft  IAW  applicable  technical  data within the AF OAP laboratory capabilities. (T-1). 4.  Roles and Responsibilities. 4.1.  Headquarters Air Force. The Air Force Director of Logistics (AF/A4L) is the chief Air Staff agency with policy responsibility for the maintenance of air and space equipment. 4.1.1.  Guidance.  Prepares,  publishes  and  reviews  AF-level  policy  and  guidance  for  the AF OAP. 4.1.1.1.  Coordinates with MAJCOMs to review and resolve guidance-related issues. for  AF  OAP.  The 4.1.2.  Management.  Designates  a  point-of-contact representative  shall  manage  this  publication  while  closely  coordinating  with  functional experts. (POC) 4.1.2.1.  Works  with  AF  representative  to  the  JOAP-Coordinating  Group  (CG)  on policy issues. 4.2.  Major Command. Each MAJCOM establishes a headquarters POC for complying with MAJCOM OAP responsibilities. 4.2.1.  Establishes  or  relocates  OAP  laboratories  to  support  MAJCOM  mission. Coordinates establishment or relocation with the AF OAP Manager. 4 AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 4.2.2.  Ensures quality deficiency reports are submitted to the unit Product Improvement Manager  IAW  TO  00-35D-54,  USAF  Deficiency  Reporting  and  Investigating  System. Deficiency  reports  must  be  submitted  to  engine  program  offices  on  all  equipment requiring tear down or overhaul due to an OAP laboratory maintenance recommendation and  on  all  oil-wetted  component  failures  where  no  OAP  laboratory  maintenance recommendation was made. 4.2.3.  Ensures  laboratories  provide  the  depot  a  computer-generated  printout/record,  for each engine undergoing scheduled maintenance or overhaul. 4.2.4.  Ensures laboratories process and evaluate samples IAW TO 33-1-37-1/-2. 4.2.5.  Ensures  proper  training  of  AF  OAP  laboratory  technicians.  This  includes identifying training requirements to the Air Education and Training Command (AETC). 4.2.6.  Ensures assigned shop instrumentation and equipment is not modified or used for non-OAP applications without AF OAP Office approval. 4.2.7.  Provides  guidance  necessary  to  execute  the  AF  OAP  and  ensures  all  subordinate organizations  understand  and  properly  execute  AF  OAP  and  JOAP  responsibilities. Specific guidance may be provided in a MAJCOM supplement to this publication and/or AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management. 4.2.8.  Ensures AF OAP and JOAP requirements are included in planning, programming and  budgeting  process.  This  includes  providing  needed  funds,  personnel,  facilities  and other resources to maintain an effective program. 4.2.9.  Supports equipment evaluations and field surveys for the AF OAP Office. 4.3.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). AFMC is the lead MAJCOM for the AF OAP and Air Force participation in the JOAP. AFMC is also responsible for oil analysis Research, Development,  Test  and  Evaluation  (RDT&E).  HQ  AFMC/A4  is  the  headquarters  office  of primary  responsibility  for  AF  OAP  guidance  coordination  and  implementation  within AFMC. 4.3.1.  Propulsion Directorate. 4.3.1.1.  Sustainment Chief Engineer represents the Air Force on the JOAP-Executive Committee (EC). 4.3.1.1.1.  Establishes, funds, staffs and directs the AF OAP Office. 4.3.1.2.  The  Development  Program  Manager  ensures  specification  guidance  for  oil analysis  sampling  provisions  or  other  appropriate  measures  to  detect  oil-wetted failures, where applicable, are included during the design phase. 4.3.1.3.  AF OAP Office, AFLCMC/LP. The AF OAP Office manages the AF OAP, and  in  coordination  with  the  MAJCOMs  and  propulsion  community,  leads  AF participation in the JOAP. 4.3.1.3.1.  Certifies/decertifies AF OAP laboratories for participation in the JOAP. 4.3.1.3.2.  Maintains a list of AF OAP laboratories, equipment and customers.   AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 5 4.3.1.3.3.  Assists  MAJCOM/Center  managers  in  program  execution.  This includes  recommending  the  establishment,  location,  and  relocation  of  AF  OAP laboratories. 4.3.1.3.3.1.  Communicates  AF  OAP  objectives,  policies  and  procedures  to the Director of Propulsion, Engine OAP Managers, equipment specialists and program managers. 4.3.1.3.3.2.  Evaluates the need for and performs special studies, as requested by the MAJCOMs or depots. 4.3.1.3.3.3.  The  AF  OAP  Office  should  periodically  conduct  laboratory assistance/assessments  to  determine  adequacy  and  effectiveness  of  the  AF OAP. Identifies problems and recommends solutions. 4.3.1.3.4.  Establishes  and  manages  a  data  system,  meeting tri-service requirements, to evaluate AF OAP participation and effectiveness and to provide engine program offices with historical data on oil sample analysis results. 4.3.1.3.5.  Coordinates  and  consolidates  AF/MAJCOM requirements  with Army/Navy  to  ensure,  where  practical,  the  procurement  of  common  OAP equipment. 4.3.1.3.6.  Represents the Air Force on the JOAP-CG. 4.3.1.3.7.  Develops  a  comprehensive  OAP  laboratory  certification  and  quality control program. 4.3.1.3.8.  Maintains  and  provides  Air  Force  inputs  to  TOs  33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4, JOAP Manual. 4.3.1.3.9.  Reviews and evaluates the JOAP school curriculum. 4.3.1.3.10.  Assists  the  Engine  OAP  Manager  and  serves  as  an  advisor  for  the engine Maintenance Planning Working Group (MPWG) for OAP issues. 4.3.2.  Director of Propulsion (DOP). The DOP AFLCMC/LP in conjunction with Engine Single  Managers  at  AFLCMC/LPS,  AFLCMC/LPA  and  the  AF  OAP  Office  assess existing/potential oil analysis technologies. The DOP also ensures wear metal debris and oil  analysis  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Engine  Health  Management  Program.  The  DOP appoints Engine OAP Managers for each Air Force-managed engine. 4.3.2.1.  Engine OAP Managers. The Engine OAP Manager is the engineer in charge of  a  particular  engine  and  is  solely  responsible  for  the  OAP-related  issues  on  that particular engine. 4.3.2.1.1.  Serves  as  the  focal  point  for  the  engine  MPWG  for  OAP  issues, provides the guidance necessary to accomplish engine-specific oil analysis. 4.3.2.1.2.  Ensures  expeditious  handling  of  equipment  returned  for  tear  down  or overhaul  because  of  an  OAP  laboratory  maintenance  recommendation  or  where oil analysis results indicated a potential problem. 4.3.2.1.3.  Provides guidance necessary to accomplish engine-specific oil analysis. Provides updates for TOs 33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4 to the OAP Office. 6 AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 4.3.2.1.4.  Provides accurate and timely feedback to the MPWG and field units on OAP-monitored equipment. This includes maintenance findings on equipment in for  tear  down  or  overhaul  as  a  result  of  an  OAP  laboratory  maintenance recommendation.  It  also  includes  failure  reports  and  related  wear  metal  and  oil analysis  data  on  oil-wetted  components  where  no  OAP  laboratory  maintenance recommendation was made. 4.3.2.1.5.  Works  with  the  MPWG  to  establish  and  maintain  wear  metal  limits, diagnostic criteria and other oil analysis parameters. This is based on a review of data from equipment tear-down and overhaul findings. 4.3.2.1.6.  Maintains metrics on hits, misses and escapes. Once oil analysis data is included  in  the  Engine  Health  Management  AF  Enterprise  Center  with  software capability  to  perform  metric  monitoring,  the  AF  OAP  will  concurrently  monitor metrics with the Engine OAP managers. 4.3.2.1.7.  Works with the MPWG, MAJCOM customers and the AF OAP Office to  establish  engine-specific  technical  and  performance  requirements  for  all  wear metal debris and oil analysis equipment. 4.3.2.1.8.  Utilizes  the  Component  Improvement  Program  (CIP)  as  needed  to evaluate the cost effectiveness of existing and potential wear metal debris and oil analysis  applications,  establish  test  programs  and  implement  the  most  cost effective method(s). 4.3.2.1.9.  Sends updates of specific oil sampling intervals and wear metal  limits (evaluate for new engines during the design phase; reconsider for existing engines when oil-wetted parts undergo any material or strength changes) to the MPWG. 4.3.3.  Support Equipment and Vehicles Division (AFLCMC/WNZ) procures oil analysis equipment at the request of the AF OAP Office. 4.3.3.1.  Maintains a contract for procurement of JOAP AE spectrometers used by the Army, Navy, and Air Force laboratories. 4.3.3.2.  Provides technical order provisioning and support. 4.3.3.3.  Establishes inter-service logistics support. This includes spare parts support, instrument repair and overhaul, procurement of common JOAP laboratory equipment and supplies, item management and equipment specialist activities, and funding status of existing contracts. 4.3.4.  Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL). AFRL accomplishes RDT&E to improve wear metal and oil analysis instruments, materials and techniques. (T-1) 4.3.4.1.  Supports  the  AF  OAP  charter  to  conduct  test  and  evaluation  for  the  oil analysis programs, including the JOAP and the AF OAP, as applicable. (T-1). 4.3.4.2.  Coordinates  RDT&E  activities  with  the  MAJCOMs,  DOP,  and  AF  OAP Office as applicable. (T-1).   AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 7 4.4.  AETC.  Provides the Nondestructive  Inspection  course.  The  AF  OAP  Management  Office  and  MAJCOMs  may request additional training, as required. training  for  AFSC  2A7X2 initial  oil  analysis through 4.4.1.  Coordinates course material changes with the AF OAP Office and the MAJCOM POCs. 5.  Reporting  and  Measurement.  All  MAJCOMs  and  laboratories  must  collect  and  report metrics to the AF OAP Manager IAW TOs 33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4. 5.1.  All laboratories must collect and report hits, misses and escapes as a minimum. (T-1).  JOHN B. COOPER, Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Engineering & Force Protection 8 AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 May 2015 AFI 21-131(IP), Joint Oil Analysis Program, 26 March 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 21-1, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 29 October 2015 AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 June 2016 DoDD 4 151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 March 2004 DoDI 50 25.12, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology, 14 August 2009 JP 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 November 2010 TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution, 1 September 2015 TOs 33-1-37-1, Joint Oil Analysis Program Manual, 15 September 2014 TOs 33-1-37-2/-3/-4, Joint Oil Analysis Program Manual, 2 June 2015 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AE—Atomic Emission AETC—Air Education and Training Command AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFI(I)—Air Force Instruction (Interservice) AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 9 AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code ANG—Air National Guard CG—Coordinating Group CIP—Component Improvement Program DoD—Department of Defense DOP—Director of Propulsion DoDD—Department of Defense Directive EC—Executive Committee EDX—Energy Dispersive X-ray EFH—Engine Flying Hours EMS—Engine Monitoring System EOT—Engine Operating Time FDA—Filter Debris Analysis FMS—Foreign Military Sales IAW—In Accordance With JOAP—Joint Oil Analysis Program MAJCOM—Major Command MCD—Magnetic Chip Detector MIS—Maintenance Information System MPWG—Maintenance Planning Working Group OAP—Oil Analysis Program OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility POC—Point of Contact QA—Quality Assurance RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation SEM/EDX—Scanning Electron Microscope/Energy Dispersive X-ray TO—Technical Order USAF—United States Air Force   10 Terms AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 Air and Space Equipment—Equipment used and maintained to meet the Air Force mission. It includes  aircraft,  missiles,  space  equipment,  communications-electronic  equipment,  avionics, engines,  training  equipment,  support  equipment,  aircraft  and  space  ground  equipment,  sound suppressor  systems,  test,  measurement  and  diagnostic  equipment  and  major  end  items  of  all equipment. Certification—The  process  by  which  a  laboratory  and  its  personnel  are  determined  to  be capable and qualified to analyze oil samples, evaluate oil analysis results, and make maintenance recommendations based upon those analytical results. Certification Program—A program managed by the AF OAP in coordination with each service oil  analysis  program  management  office,  to  ensure  that  laboratories  and  personnel  meet certification requirements of individual service oil analysis programs. A program to assure OAP laboratories  are  qualified  to  analyze  fluid  samples,  evaluate  the  results,  and  make  proper maintenance recommendations. Common  Instrumentation—Instruments  used  by  two  or  more  of  the  services  to  analyze  used fluids. Common  Operating  Equipment—Equipment  that  has  common  functions,  oil-wetted  parts  of like design and similar failure modes. Correlation  Program—A  program  managed  by  the  AF  OAP  in  which  all  JOAP  laboratories receive and analyze standardized mineral and synthetic oil samples. Correlation Sample—A sample of oil, synthetic or mineral, prepared by the AF OAP and used to monitor instrument capability to produce desired results and laboratory personnel compliance with  JOAP  technical  order  procedures.  Correlation  sample  data  provide  critical  information relative to a laboratory’s certification status. Customer—Any  activity  authorized  by  the  JOAP–CG  to  submit  samples  to  and  receive  oil analysis  results  and  recommendations  from  a  JOAP  laboratory.  Any  JOAP–CG  member  may authorize  customers  to  use  his  or  her  service’s  laboratory  if  the  additional  workload  does  not interfere with an existing workload. Escape—An in-service failure or abnormal wear finding where no OAP laboratory maintenance recommendation was made. Evaluation  Criteria—Information  used  by  oil  analysis  laboratories  in  the  evaluation  of  oil analysis results. Evaluation criteria may comprise wear-metal limits, wear-metal trends, decision tables,  physical  test  limits,  component  part  composition,  component  diagrams,  and  specific comments related to the particular component from which an oil sample is taken. Hit—An  OAP  laboratory  maintenance  recommendation  confirmed  by  a  physical  finding  of abnormal wear or potential for catastrophic failure. Inter-Service Customer—An activity within the services that has oil analysis support provided by another service’s laboratory. Inter-Service Maintenance Support—Maintenance either recurring or nonrecurring, performed by the organic capability of one Military Service, or element of it, in support of another Military Service or element. AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 11 JOAP Coordinating Group (JOAP-CG)—A working group responsible for implementing and monitoring JOAP activities. It is composed of oil analysis program management representatives from the Army, Navy, and Air Force. The Marine Corps and Coast Guard may be included as nonvoting, associate members of the JOAP–CG. JOAP Executive Committee (JOAP EC)—A team of 06-level representatives from the JOAP offices of prime responsibility for the services, which works under the authority and direction of the  Air  Force  Materiel  Command,  the  Army  Materiel  Command,  and  the  Naval  Air  Systems Command. The JOAP EC provides oversight to JOAP Coordinating Group activities. JOAP Laboratory—An Army Navy, or Air Force oil analysis laboratory operating according to OAP regulations. Its personnel must be certified according to established JOAP procedures and capable of providing oil analysis support to the other services. JOAP  Manual—A  tri–service  manual  (NAVAIP  17–15–50.1/50.2/50.3/50.4,  TM  38–301–1/–2/–3/–4,  and  TO  33–1–37–1/–2/–3/–4)  containing  consolidated  procedures,  methods,  and evaluation criteria used by JOAP oil analysis laboratories and customers. JOAP  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)—The  Army,  Navy,  and  Air  Force  executive agents  responsible  for  ensuring  effective  inter-service  policy  coordination  and  problem resolution and providing management control over the irrespective service oil analysis programs. JOAP Spectrometer—An analytical instrument, approved by the JOAP-CG, used to detect and measure designated wear metals contained in lubricating oils and other fluid samples. Maintenance  Planning  Working  Group  (MPWG)—The  MPWG  is  a  team  consisting  of  the engine  managers  from  each  using  MAJCOM,  representatives  from  the  using  community, government  development  and  depot  teams,  and  the  engine  manufacturer.  The  purpose  of  the MPWG is to review and direct the life management and maintenance plans for the engine. The MPWG determines the objectives and content of their maintenance program.  MPWG plans are updated based on field and depot experience. Miss—An  OAP  laboratory  maintenance  recommendation  followed  by  a  physical  finding  of  no abnormal wear or potential for catastrophic failure. Oil  Analysis—The  process  of  analyzing  oil  and  other  fluids  used  to  lubricate  or  operate mechanical  equipment,  evaluating  the  condition  of  the  fluid  or  the  equipment  from  which  the fluid originated, and recommending maintenance actions to the equipment operating activity. Oil-Wetted Air—Oil moistened air used for lubrication and decreases friction between parts. Physical  Property  Analysis—Analytical  procedures  used  to  determine  the  suitability  of  a lubricant  or  fluid  for  continued  use.  Tests  include  analyses  for  water  and  fuel  contamination, fluid viscosity, and solids contamination. logical  discipline  for  developing  a  scheduled-Reliability-Centered  Maintenance—A maintenance  program  that  will  realize  the  inherent  reliability  levels  of  complex  equipment  at minimum cost. Response  Time—The elapsed work hours from the time that an analysis request is received in the  oil  analysis  laboratory  and  required  processing  is  completed.  Laboratory  processing  is completed  when  the  sample  analysis  is  evaluated  and,  if  required,  action  is  taken  to  notify  the customer of a maintenance recommendation. 12 AFI21-124  12 JANUARY 2017 Spectrometer—An instrument which uses the atomic emission or atomic absorption principle to identify the types and concentrations of wear metals in used fluid samples. Spectrometric  Analysis—A  technique  used  to  detect  and  measure  wear  metals  and  other elements  from  oil–wetted  components  in  aeronautical  and  non-aeronautical  equipment components  and  to  alert  maintenance  personnel  about  conditions  that  may  lead  to  component failure if not corrected. Spectrometric Calibration Standard—A mineral oil that contains known quantities of specific organometallic  compounds,  has  a  controlled  viscosity  and  flash  point,  and  is  used  to  calibrate and standardize spectrometers. Standards composition must be approved by the JOAP–CG. Technical Order—An AF publication that gives specific technical directives and information on inspection, storage, operation, modification, and maintenance of given AF items and equipment. Turn-around Time—The interval encompassing the period from the time the samples is taken until  an  answer  (maintenance  recommendation,  request  for  resample,  etc.)  is  received  by  the customer. Turn-around requirements may vary for the individual customers. Transient  Aircraft—Aircraft  not  assigned  to  a  base  that  are  en  route  from  one  location  to another that may require routine servicing. Aircraft deploying to or staging from a base for the purpose  of  flying  sorties  or  conducting  training  with  a  squadron  assigned  to  the  base,  with  or without  the  necessary  maintenance  support  from  the  home  base,  are  not  considered  transient aircraft. Viscosity  Calibration  Standard—A fluid of known viscosity used by oil analysis laboratories to standardize the viscometer.  