 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2845 Incorporating Change 1, 16 JUNE 2016 7 JULY 2015 Personnel SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE, CHIEF OF INFORMATION DOMINANCE AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER SPECIAL TROPHIES AND AWARDS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   A6SF  Supersedes:   AFI 36-2845, 29 August 2013 Certified by: SAF/CIO A6SF  (Mr. Mark F. Hanson) Pages: 23   This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs.  It establishes and provides guidance for Air Force-level functional award nomination and  selection  processes  that  are  under  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Office  of  Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) special trophies and awards.  It applies to  all Air  Force active duty  military members, members of  the Air  National  Guard (ANG)  and Reserve;  Title  5,  United  States  Code  (U.S.C.),  Government  Organization  and  Employees, civilian  employees;  non-appropriated  fund  civilian  employees;  and  foreign  national  employees working at all levels of Department of Defense (DoD), Air Force, ANG and Reserve, and unified and specified commands.  This instruction does not apply to contract personnel or contract units.  Commanders send recommended changes or comments to Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Information  Dominance  and  Chief  Information  Officer  (SAF/CIO  A6),  1800  Air  Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330, through appropriate command channels, using Air Force (AF) Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication.    Provide  information  copies  of supplements, changes, etc., to AF/A6SF, 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330.  This instruction does not require collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act (PA)  of  1974.    The  authorities  to  collect  and  (or)  maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  this publications  are  Title  10,  U.S.C.,  Section  857,  Armed  Forces,  Title  5,  U.S.C.,  Section  45,  and Executive  Order  (E.O.)  9397,  Numbering  System  for  Federal  Accounts  Relating  to  Individual Persons as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to  Federal  Agency  Use  of  Social  Security  Numbers,  November  18,  2008  and  Executive  Order   2  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 (E.O.)  9397,  Numbering  System  for  Federal  Accounts  Relating  to  Individual  Persons,  as amended.    System  of  Records  Notice  F036  AF  PC  V,  Awards  and  Decorations,  applies  and  is available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  Unless  otherwise  noted,  SAF/CIO  A6  is  the  waiver  authority  to  policies  contained  in  this Instruction.  Submit waiver requests for SAF/CIO A6 consideration/approval through AF/A6SF.  See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This interim change revises AFI 36-2845 by (1) changing the maximum number of lines in the nomination  packages  from  30  to  12  for  all  award  categories,  (2)  removing  the  reference  to Attachment 4 in Table 2.2 and (3) delete Chapter 3 contents from the AFI and all Hall of Fame reference. A margin bar (|) indicates changed material.  Chapter 1—GENERAL JOHN P. JUMPER AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN WARFIGHTING INTEGRATION    1.1. Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  1.2. Award Elements.   ....................................................................................................  1.3. Responsibilities.   .....................................................................................................  1.4. Eligibility.   ..............................................................................................................  1.5. Award Period of Service.   .......................................................................................  1.6. Award Categories.   .................................................................................................  1.7. Nomination Packages.   ...........................................................................................  1.8. Nomination Due Date and Nominating Authorities.   .............................................  1.9. Selection Panels, Process, and Board Rules of Engagement.   ................................  1.10.  Presenting Awards.   ................................................................................................  Chapter 2—AIR FORCE INFORMATION DOMINANCE ANNUAL AWARDS PROGRAM    2.1. Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  2.2. Award Elements.   ....................................................................................................  2.3. Responsibilities.   .....................................................................................................  2.4. Eligibility and Award Categories.   ..........................................................................  Table  2.1. Air Force Information Dominance Officer, Enlisted, and Civilian Individual Award Categories:   .................................................................................................  Table  2.2. Air Force Information Dominance Team Award Category.   ..................................  4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 9 9 9 10 12 AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 Table  2.3. Air Force Information Dominance Unit Award Categories.   ..................................  2.5. Award Period of Service and Nomination Packages.   ............................................  2.6. Nomination Due Date and Nominating Authorities.   .............................................  2.7. Selection Panels, Process, and Board Rules of Engagement.   ................................  2.8. Presenting Awards.   ................................................................................................  Chapter 3—DELETED   Chapter 4—NON-AIR FORCE AWARDS SPONSORED BY EXTERNAL ORGANIZATIONS     4.1. Air Force Association (AFA) General Billy Mitchell Award for C4 Excellence.   .  4.2. Air Force Communications and Air Traffic Controller Association (AFCOMMATC) Communicator of the Year Award   ...........................................  4.3. AFCEA DC Military IT Leadership Award.   .........................................................  4.4. National Security Agency (NSA) Information Assurance, Frank B.   .....................  4.5. Department of Defense Chief Information Officer Awards.   .................................  4.6. Defense Information System Agency (DISA) Defense Information System Network (DISN) Facility of the Year Awards.   ......................................................  4.7. Records and Forms.   ...............................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION       3  13 13 14 15 15 16 17 17 17 17 18 18 19 20 21   4  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 Chapter 1 GENERAL JOHN P. JUMPER AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN WARFIGHTING INTEGRATION 1.1.  Purpose.  This award honors General John P. Jumper, the former Chief of Staff of the Air Force, who institutionalized warfighting integration as a Deputy Chief of Staff function.  General Jumper’s vision and passion for integrating Air Force resources to better support the warfighter are an inspiration to  all Air  Force warfighters.  The award  recognizes individuals for  sustained superior  performance  and  outstanding  contributions  to  the  integration  of  Air  Force  or  DoD warfighting and/or operations support capabilities that shorten the kill chain and/or enhance the decision cycle. 1.2.  Award  Elements.  Award  elements  consist  of  an  engraved  plaque  accompanied  by congratulatory letters signed by SAF/CIO A6.  Individual award winners may wear the Air Force Recognition  Ribbon  or  the  Air  Force  Recognition  Pin,  as  authorized  by  AFI  36-2805,  Special Trophies and Awards. 1.3.  Responsibilities. 1.3.1.  SAF/CIO A6 owns and sponsors this award program. 1.3.2.  AF/A6SF  is  the  designated  Air  Force  office  of  primary  responsibility  (OPR)  for administering and managing this awards program; A6S has policy oversight. 1.3.3.  A general officer or civilian equivalent assigned to SAF/CIO A6 chairs this Air Force awards board.  Commanders and management officials at all levels of command ensure Air Force  military  members  and  civilian  employees  are  available  to  serve  as  members  of  the selection  panels.    A6S  serves  as  board  administrator  and  determine  prerequisites  for  panel membership. 1.4.  Eligibility.  Air  Force  active  duty  military  members;  members  of  the  Air  National  Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve (AFR); Title 5, U.S.C., civilian employees; non-appropriated fund civilian employees; and foreign national employees employed by the U.S. Air Force, regardless of their career field, working in any organization at all levels of DoD, Air Force, ANG and AFR, and  unified  and  specified  commands  whose  duties  and  responsibilities  contribute  to  Air  Force integration efforts are eligible for the award.  Those nominated should be continuing their federal civilian or military service with the government and should not have an approved separation or retirement date.  Military members and federal civilian employees that receive awards at the AF level,  are  ineligible  to  compete  for  the  same  award  the  following  year.  Contract  personnel  are not eligible for these awards. 1.5.  Award Period of Service.  The award period is based on a fiscal year calendar, 1 October – 30 September. 1.6.  Award  Categories.  The  program  consists  of  three  award  categories—officer  (Second Lieutenant  through  Lieutenant  Colonel),  enlisted  (Airman  Basic  through  Senior  Master Sergeant),  and  civilian  (GS-01  through  GS-14).    Winners  from  each  category  will  go  on  to compete  for  Air  Force  Association’s  General  Billy  Mitchell  Award  for  C4  Excellence  (see paragraph 3.1 for more information regarding this award). AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   5  1.7.  Nomination  Packages.  Nominating  Authorities  listed  in  paragraph  1.8  may  submit  one nominee  per  award  category  listed  in  paragraph  1.6.    Adhere  to  the  guidelines  below  when submitting a nomination package. 1.7.1.  Nomination packages consist of the latest version of AF Form 1206,  Nomination for Award. Do not exceed 12 lines (no headers used) and explain acronyms in alphabetical order on  reverse  side  of  AF  Form  1206.  Nominations  not  meeting  the  outlined  criteria  are disqualified. 1.7.2.  Nominations should  be accurate and succinct.   Describe how the nominee’s superior performance  and  contributions  impacted  the  integration  of  Air  Force  warfighting  and  (or) operations support capabilities that shorten the kill chain and (or) enhance the decision cycle.  Focus  on  the  nominee’s  successes  to  increase  Air  Force  warfighting  capabilities  and performance  and  the  measurable,  observable  results  he  or  she  achieved.    The  following examples are not all encompassing; rather, the intent is to paint a broad picture of justifiable contributions: 1.7.2.1.  Efforts leading to shortening the kill chain (find, fix, target, engage, and access). 1.7.2.2.  Network centric collaborative targeting advances. 1.7.2.3.  Increasing precision and speed of targeting process. 1.7.2.4.  Innovative tactics, techniques, and procedures. 1.7.2.5.  Improving  connectivity  to  make  essential  information  more  available  to  the warfighter. 1.7.2.6.  Gateways,  translators,  beyond  line  of  sight  extensions,  increases  in  bandwidth, etc. 1.7.2.7.  Demonstrating innovations that enhance the power of decision superiority. 1.7.2.8.  Fusing  information  to  provide  better  overall  situational  awareness  to  the warfighter. 1.7.2.9.  Improving  the  effectiveness  of  air  and  space  operations  through  improved command and control (C2) and information flow. 1.7.2.10.  Enhancing  effects-based  operations  to  increase  the  air  and  space  operations center (AOC) operations tempo and more efficiently utilize combat assets. 1.7.2.11.  Machine-to-machine  fusion  of  intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance (ISR) data with desired effects criteria. 1.7.2.12.  Efforts  that  increase  or  accelerate  fielding  of  network-centric  warfare capabilities. 1.7.2.13.  Increasing  the  number  of  DoD  Integrated  Networks  (DODIN)  enabled platforms. 1.7.2.14.  Network enabling assets using existing technology. 1.7.2.15.  Integration  efforts  with  joint  or  coalition  partners  that  increase  warfighting capabilities. 1.7.2.16.  Joint and coalition data link, ISR, and C2 integration.   6  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 1.7.2.17.  Innovative employment or application of existing capabilities or technology to improve mission execution. 1.7.2.18.  Adding video downlink capability to strike aircraft targeting pods. 1.7.2.19.  Efforts that lead to a decrease in fratricide or “friendly fire” incidents. 1.7.2.20.  Common operational picture, blue force tracking, data sharing, etc. 1.7.2.21.  Improving accuracy and security of information for the warfighter. 1.7.2.22.  Information assurance advances in the DODIN. 1.7.2.23.  Developing  processes  to  decrease  acquisition  and  fielding  time  to  rapidly deliver urgently needed capabilities to the warfighter. 1.7.3.  Write  hard-hitting,  one-line  bullet  statements,  if  possible,  outlining  the  nominee’s major  accomplishments:  achievement-result-impact.    Arrange  the  facts  in  a  neat,  organized manner.    Write  the  nominations  in  a  way  that  directs  the  panel  members’  attention  to  the importance of the nominee’s efforts and not to the importance of what systems can produce.  Do not put classified information in the nomination package. 1.7.4.  Nominations for individuals reassigned to a different unit during the award period of service may address efforts performed in both units. 1.7.5.  If  the  nominee  deployed  during  the  award  period  of  service,  do  not  base  the nomination solely on the nominee’s deployed activities unless the member was deployed for the  entire  award  period  of  service;  address  what  the  nominee  accomplished  while  at  his  or her home unit as well. 1.7.6.  When referring to statistics, quantify by using numbers and give comparative figures where possible, such as “…reduced processing time from 6 hours to 3 hours;” avoid the use of terminology such as “multiple,” “staff doubled,” etc. 1.7.7.  Do not use the nominee’s additional duties in the basis of the nomination unless they are  activities  directly  linked  to  the  integration  of  Air  Force  warfighting  and  (or)  operations support  capabilities.    Participation  in  fundraising  activities,  unit  and  private  non-profit organizations such as booster clubs, Top 4, Air Force Association, and the like do not qualify as additional duties or activities linked to warfighting integration mission accomplishments.  Do not address the nominee’s education and degrees; attendance at courses, seminars, etc.; or community and cultural activities performed by the nominee. 1.7.8.  Avoid  the  use  of  broad  or  vague  terminology  in  the  nominations  and  do  not summarize the nominee’s job description. 1.8.  Nomination  Due  Date  and  Nominating  Authorities.  Nomination  packages  from  lower level  units  should  channel  through  respective  competitive  command  echelons.    Command packages are due electronically to the SAF/CIO A6 Awards Workflow e-mail box no later than 14  November  of  the  current  year.    Submit  all  nominations  individually  as  Portable  Document Format  (pdf)  files.    NOTE:  Nominations  documenting  a  deployed  member’s  achievements,  to include  those  on  a  365-day  temporary  duty  (TDY)  deployment,  flow  through  the  deployed member’s home-station unit and owning command. AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   7  1.8.1.  Air  Force  senior  leaders  or  designated  authorities  at  Headquarters  United  States  Air Force 2-letter offices are the nominating officials for Air Force personnel assigned to those organizations.    Each  organization  can  nominate  no  more  than  one  officer,  one  enlisted member, and one federal civilian employee. 1.8.2.  Directors of Information Dominance (A6) or designated authority at Air Force major commands are the nominating officials for Air Force personnel assigned and (or) attached to the headquarters and its subordinate units.  Each command can nominate no more than one officer, one enlisted member, and one federal civilian employee. 1.8.3.  Directors or designated authority at unified combatant commands, combatant service component commands, and combined commands (J6) are nominating officials for Air Force personnel  permanently  assigned  and  (or)  attached  to  the  command  headquarters  and  its subordinate  units.    Each  unified  combatant  command,  combatant  service  component command,  and  combined  command  can  nominate  no  more  than  one  officer,  one  enlisted member, and one federal civilian employee. 1.8.4.  Commanders  of  Air  Force  Direct  Reporting  Units  (DRU)  and  Field  Operating Agencies  (FOA)  and  commanders  of  other  stand-alone  Air  Force  Elements  or  special agencies  are  the  nominating  officials  for  Air  Force  personnel  assigned  or  attached  to  those organizations.    Each  organization  can  nominate  no  more  than  one  officer,  one  enlisted member, and one federal civilian employee. 1.9.  Selection Panels, Process, and Board Rules of Engagement. 1.9.1.  A6SF  administers  the  Air  Force  selection  board  electronically  by  way  of  a Community  of  Practice  (CoP)  or  collaboration  website.    This  site  provides  each  panel member  the  ability  to  view,  evaluate,  and  score  nominees  on-line.  Boards  are  virtually administered;  Temporary  Duty  (TDY)  is  not  authorized  for  the  purpose  of  convening  a selection board. 1.9.2.  A6SF establishes separate panels for each of the award categories.  Panel membership is  functional  in  nature  and  United  States  Air  Force  (USAF)  military  members  and  federal civilian employees assigned to units at any level of command may serve as members. 1.9.2.1.  Nominating  authorities  submit  panel  member  nominations  for  each  award category electronically to the SAF/CIO A6 Awards Workflow e-mail box no later than 1 November of the current year. Nominated panel members should be available to devote the  time  required  to  evaluate  and  score  the  nomination  packages  within  the  time  frame allowed. 1.9.2.2.  Individuals  who  accept  a  position  on  the  panels  swear  to  and  are  expected  to abide by the following oath:  “I swear to, without prejudice or partiality, having in view the  special  fitness  of  the  Airmen,  and  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the  USAF,  perform the duties imposed upon me.” 1.9.3.  Each panel consists of at least three but no more than five members who evaluate and score the nomination packages.  Panel members are senior in rank to the nominees they are judging and work independent of each other during the selection process.  Members selected to participate on the board serve as a primary or alternate board member for a period not to exceed 1 year.  However, members who are in any nominees’ supervisory chain of command   8  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 or in positions that could put them in a compromising position or cause a conflict of interest should identify and remove themselves from the panel. 1.9.4.  The  senior-ranking  member  on  the  panel  assumes  the  role  of  president.    The  role  of the Panel President is to collect scores from each individual board member, tabulate the final scores,  arbitrate  and  reconcile  any  ties,  certify  the  outcome  of  their  respective  board,  and identify  the  winner  back  to  A6SF.    Panel  presidents  do  not  score  the  nominations  unless  a requirement exists for the president to break a tie for first place. 1.9.5.  The board rules of engagement provide no room for discussions about the nominations or scoring decisions, in whole or part, between panel members or with anyone else inside or outside  of  the  selection  process.    Panel  members  do  not  attempt  to  coerce  or  influence  any other members on the panels to formulate scores or select a particular individual during the selection processes.  Exception to the “no discussion” rule may take place only if and when significant  differences  occur  between  panel  members’  scores  or  ties  occurred  and  the members  may  then  communicate  to  resolve  the  differences.    The  panel  president  first adjudicates  the  need  for  any  discussions  and  rescoring  actions  in  the  event  of  major  splits between  panel  members’  scores.    Rescoring  may  take  place,  but  only  when  it's  clearly evident  that  it  will  change  the  outcome  (winner)  of  the  competition—and  it  is  in  the  best interest  of  and  fair  to  all  nominees  concerned.    The  final  decision  for  panel  members  to discuss or rescore any nominees package rests with the panel president. 1.9.6.  Panel  members  cannot  disclose  the  outcome  of  the  competitions  to  anyone  prior  to approval  and  formal  announcement  of  the  winners.    Panel  members  are  not  allowed  to disclose  or  share  with  others  how  their  command  nominees  ranked  against  other  unit nominees in the scoring process; nor are they allowed to discuss their perception of creative and  (or)  noncreative  writing  used  in  the  nominations.    To  do  so  would  be  a  “personal” opinion; no one member of the panel can speak for any other members on the panel.  Panel members destroy all documentation relating to the board after SAF/CIO A6 has approved the results and formally announced the winners. 1.10.  Presenting  Awards.  SAF/  CIO  A6  announces  award  recipients  by  message  and  award elements will be mailed to the winner’s unit commander for presentation. AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   9  Chapter 2 AIR FORCE INFORMATION DOMINANCE ANNUAL AWARDS PROGRAM 2.1.  Purpose.  These  annual awards recognize USAF  military members (officers and enlisted), federal civilian employees, teams, and units for sustained superior performance while providing information  dominance  and  cyberspace  operations  to  Air  Force  and  (or)  DoD  missions  and operations. 2.2.  Award  Elements.  Award  elements  consist  of  an  engraved  plaque  accompanied  by congratulatory  letters  signed  by  SAF/CIO  A6.    Winners  of  the  officer,  enlisted,  civilian,  and team awards may wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon or the Air Force Recognition Pin, as authorized  by  AFI  36-2805.    This  authority  does  not  extend  to  military  members  and  civilian employees of winning unit awards. 2.3.  Responsibilities. 2.3.1.  SAF/CIO A6 owns and sponsors this awards program. 2.3.2.  A6SF  is  the  designated  Air  Force  OPR  for  administration  and  management  of  this awards program; A6S has policy oversight. 2.3.3.  A general officer or civilian equivalent assigned to SAF/CIO A6 chairs the Annual Air Force  Information  Dominance  Awards  selection  board.    Commanders  and  management officials at all levels of command ensure USAF military members and civilian employees are available  to  serve  as  members  of  the  selection  panels.    A6SF  shall  serve  as  the  board administrator and determine prerequisites for panel membership. 2.4.  Eligibility and Award Categories. 2.4.1.  Eligibility. 2.4.1.1.  Eligibility for the Air Force Information Dominance individual awards applies to Air Force active duty military members, members of ANG and AFR; Title 5, U.S.C., Air Force  civilian  employees,  Air  Reserve  Technicians;  non-appropriated  fund  civilian employees;  and  foreign  national  employees  performing  core  information  dominance and/or cyberspace duties in any organization at all levels of DoD, Air Force, ANG, AFR and  unified  and  specified  commands.    Those  nominated  should  be  continuing  their federal civilian or military service with the government and should not have an approved separation  or  retirement date.  Military members, federal civilian employees, teams and units that receive awards at the AF level, are ineligible to compete for the same award the following year.  Contract personnel are not eligible for Air Force information dominance awards. 2.4.1.1.1.  Subspecialty  work  performed  in  each  career  field  form  the  basis  of  the individual awards outlined in this guide.  Military members should be serving in and performing  duties  that  are  consistent  with  their  assigned  AFSC  as  defined  in  the award  category  for  which  they  are  nominated;  civilian  employees  should  be performing duties that are consistent with those described in the military information dominance  career  fields.    Ensure  nominated  individuals  have  performed  in  the  duty   10  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 AFSC  or  civilian  occupational  code  that  corresponds  with  the  grade  held  for  the majority of the award period unless otherwise stated. 2.4.1.1.2.      Enlisted  award  categories  are  subdivided  into  three  rank  tiers:  Airman (Airman Basic through Senior Airman, inclusive of those selected for promotion to Staff Sergeant), NCO (Staff Sergeants and Technical Sergeants, inclusive of those selected for promotion  to  Master  Sergeant),  and  SNCO  (Master  Sergeants  and  Senior  Master Sergeants not selected for promotion to Chief Master Sergeant). 2.4.1.1.3.  Individuals  promoted  during  the  awards  period  may  only  compete  in  the grade they held for the majority of the period, normally 183 days or more. 2.4.2.  Award Categories. 2.4.2.1.  Air  Force Officer, Enlisted, and Civilian  Individual  Awards.  These awards recognize  officers,  enlisted,  and  federal  civilian  employees  working  in  information dominance  and/or  cyberspace  career  fields  for  sustained  superior  performance  and contributions  that  benefited  the  Air  Force  and  (or)  DoD  missions  and  operations.    This section  of  the  program  provides  for  only  one  winner  in  each  of  the  individual  award categories.    Nominating  authorities  defined  in  paragraph  2.6  may  nominate  one individual  in  each  of  the  designated  award  categories.    Individuals  competing  for  these awards are not eligible to compete for the awards defined in other tables in this guidance where  the  AFSC  and  (or)  subspecialty  work  performed  would  be  the  same  as  those recognized by these awards.  This does not preclude nominees from being a member of a nominated team; nor does it restrict them from competing for other awards addressed in AFI 36-2845, providing the qualifying factors and basis used for other awards differ from those  required  for  the  information  dominance  officer,  enlisted,  and  civilian  individual awards.  Junior enlisted members (E-1 through E-5) selected as Information Dominance Award  winners  go  on  to  compete  for  the  Air  Force  Communicator  and  Air  Traffic Controller Association’s Communicator of the Year Award (see paragraph 3.2 for more information regarding this award). Table 2.1.  Air Force Information Dominance Officer, Enlisted, and Civilian Individual Award Categories: Award Category Air Force Cyberspace Outstanding Company Grade Officer (CGO) Air Force Cyberspace Outstanding Field Grade Officer (FGO)   Air Force Outstanding Civilian Category I AFSC, Rank, Grade, and (or) Other Qualifying Factors CGOs (Second Lieutenant through Captain, including those selected for promotion to Major) assigned in AFSC 17XXX at any level of command are eligible for this award.   FGOs (Majors and Lieutenant Colonels not selected for promotion to Colonel) assigned in AFSC 17XXX at any level of command are eligible for this award. Civilian employees in grades of GS/WS/WL/WG-01 through 08 assigned to perform information dominance support duties that are consistent with any of those described in any of the information dominance officer and enlisted specialty career fields at any level of command are eligible for this award. AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   11  Air Force Outstanding Civilian Category II Air Force Outstanding Civilian Category III Air Force Outstanding Cyber Warfare Noncommissioned Officer  Air Force Outstanding Cyber Warfare Senior Noncommissioned Officer  Air Force Outstanding Administration Airman Air Force Outstanding Administration Noncommissioned Officer Air Force Outstanding Administration Senior Noncommissioned Officer Air Force Outstanding Cyber Operations Airman Air Force Outstanding Cyber Operations  Noncommissioned Officer Air Force Outstanding Cyber Systems Airman Air Force Outstanding Cyber Systems Noncommissioned Officer Air Force Outstanding Cyberspace Support Senior Noncommissioned Officer Civilian employees in grades of GS/WS/WL/WG-09 through 11 assigned to manage and/or perform information dominance support duties that are consistent with any of those described in any of the information dominance officer and enlisted specialty career fields at any level of command are eligible for this award.   Civilian employees in the grades of GS/WS/WL/WG-12 through 14 assigned to oversee, manage, and/or perform information dominance support duties that are consistent with any of those described in any of the information dominance officer and enlisted specialty career fields at any level of command are eligible for this award.   NCOs assigned in AFSC 1B4XX at any level of command are eligible for this award.   ** Retrain in only AFSC--only compete at NCO/SNCO levels.** SNCOs assigned in AFSC 1B4XX at any level of command are eligible for this award.   ** Retrain in only AFSC--only compete at NCO/SNCO levels.** Airmen assigned in AFSC 3A1XX at any level of command are eligible for this award NCOs assigned in AFSC 3A1XX at any level of command are eligible for this award SNCOs assigned in AFSC 3A1XX at any level of command are eligible for this award Airmen assigned in AFSC 3D0XX at any level of command are eligible for this award. NCOs assigned in AFSC 3D0XX at any level of command are eligible for this award. Airmen assigned in AFSC 3D1XX at any level of command are eligible for this award. NCOs assigned in AFSC 3D1XX at any level of command are eligible for this award. SNCOs assigned in AFSC 3DXXX at any level of command are eligible for this award.   12  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 2.4.2.2.  Air Force Information Dominance Team Award.  Named in honor of former comptroller  of  the  Air  Force  and  commander  of  the  Air  Force  Logistics  Command, General  Edwin  W.  Rawlings,  this  award  recognizes  a  group  of  Air  Force  information dominance  personnel  brought  together  to  work  as  a  team  (e.g.,  tiger  team)  for accomplishments  associated  with  a  one-time,  nonrecurring  special  project,  process improvement, or short-term endeavor that resulted in tangible or intangible benefits to the Air Force and produced goal-oriented results that, when put in place, would significantly improve  information  dominance/cyberspace  to  Air  Force  and  (or)  DoD  missions  and operations.  The endeavor cannot be part of the teams daily operational work; rather, it is a one-time special endeavor that has a start date and a closing date and the need to repeat the endeavor or mission is not likely to occur again. Contracted personnel or companies selected or hired to perform a special (contracted) project or participate on a team are not  eligible.    This  section  of  the  program  provides  for  only  one  winner  and  nominating authorities defined in paragraph 2.6 may nominate one team. Table 2.2.  Air Force Information Dominance Team Award Category. Award Category  Qualifying Factors Air Force General Edwin W. Rawlings Team Award Groups of 2 to 25 USAF information dominance/cyberspace personnel (military members and federal civilian employees) selected to work together as a team to accomplish a one-time, nonrecurring special project, process improvement, or short-term endeavor are eligible for this award.  The endeavor should not have started prior to the beginning of the award period of service and the team should have completed the effort by the end of the award period of service. 2.4.2.3.  Air  Force  Information  Dominance  Unit  Awards.    There  are  two  unit  award categories.  One honors Major General Harold M. McClelland, a distinguished Air Force communications  officer  and  airpower  pioneer;  the  other  honors  Lieutenant  General Harold  W.  Grant,  the  Director  of  Air  Force  Telecommunications  (1958-1961)  and  the first  commander  of  the  Air  Force  Communications  Service.    These  awards  recognize large  and  small  information  dominance/cyberspace  units  for  sustained  superior performance  and  professional  excellence  while  managing  core  information  dominance and/or cyberspace functions, and for contributions that most improved Air Force and (or) DoD  operations  and  missions.    These  awards  provide  for  only  one  winner  in  each  unit award  category  and  nominating  authorities  defined  in  paragraph  2.6  may  nominate  one unit in each unit award category. 2.4.2.3.1.  Groups  are  allowed  to  compete.    Nominated  organizations  must  meet  the definition of a “unit” as prescribed in AFI 38-101, paragraph 2.1.  Units may compete for  only  one  unit  award.    Air  Force-,  Major  Command-,  and  Numbered  Air  Force-level  headquarters  Information  Dominance  support  staff  directorates,  divisions, branch  offices,  sections,  and  flights  are  not  eligible  for  an  Air  Force  information dominance/cyberspace unit award.  Directorates, divisions, flights, and the like form an internal staff structure of a whole organization and are not units for the purpose of these unit awards. 2.4.2.3.2.  The  Air  Force  Information  Dominance  Unit  Awards  (Grant  and McClelland)  are  SAF/CIO  A6  functional  community  awards  specifically  for  Air AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   13  Force groups and squadrons.  Allied, Joint, Unified, Combined and Contracted units are not eligible for Air Force Information Dominance unit awards. 2.4.2.3.3.  The Air Force Information Dominance Unit Awards are reserved for units that  specifically  perform  a  cyberspace  or  information  dominance  mission  as  their primary  function.  Unless  a  unit  can  demonstrate  that  cyberspace  is  its  primary operational domain, they don't meet the threshold for submission for these awards. Table 2.3.  Air Force Information Dominance Unit Award Categories. Award Category  Qualifying Factors Air Force Major General Harold M. McClelland Award  Air Force information dominance/cyberspace groups/squadrons with 126 or more manpower authorizations that perform and provide a full range of functions and services to Air Force and (or) DoD operations and missions are eligible for this award.  All funded military and federal civilian authorized positions count—do not include contracted or unfunded positions.   Air Force information dominance/cyberspace groups/squadrons with 125 or fewer manpower authorizations that perform and provide a full range of functions and services to Air Force and (or) DoD operations and missions are eligible for this award.  All funded military and federal civilian authorized positions count—do not include contracted or unfunded positions.   Air Force Lieutenant General Harold W. Grant Award  2.5.  Award Period of Service and Nomination Packages. 2.5.1.  Award  Period  of  Service.    The  award  period  is  based  on  a  fiscal  year  calendar,  1 October – 30 September. 2.5.2.  Nomination  Packages.  Nominating  Authorities  listed  in  paragraph  2.6  may  submit one nominee per award category listed in Tables 2.1  - 2.5.  Adhere to the guidelines below when submitting a nomination package. 2.5.2.1.  Nomination packages consist of the latest version of AF Form 1206, Nomination for  Award.  Do  not  exceed  12  lines (no  headers used);  explain  acronyms  in  alphabetical order on reverse side of AF Form 1206. Submit all nominations individually as pdf files. Nominations not meeting the prescribed criteria are disqualified. 2.5.2.1.1.  For  team  award  nominations,  provide  the  name,  rank  or  grade,  and  unit assignment of each team member on the reverse page of the AF Form 1206. Include a narrative  (no  more  than  4  lines,  in  addition  to  12  line  limit)  describing  the  team charter on the AF Form 1206. 2.5.2.1.2.  For each unit award, provide the number of Air Force manpower (military and  federal  civilian)  funded  positions  authorized  to  the  unit  in  the  first  bulleted statement on the AF Form 1206-exclude contract positions. 2.5.2.1.3.  For individuals,  nominations  documenting  a  deployed  member’s achievements, to include those on a 365-day TDY deployment, compete through the deployed member’s home-station unit and owning command. 2.5.2.2.  Nominations  should  be  accurate,  succinct,  and  describe  how  the  individual’s, team’s,  or  unit’s  superior  performance  and  contributions  impacted  cyberspace  services and support to Air Force and (or) DoD missions and operations.   14  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 2.5.2.3.  A  nomination  should  paint  a  clear,  descriptive  picture  of  the  nominee’s accomplishments;  it  should  tell  the  story.  Use  one  line,  accomplishment-result-impact bulleted  statements  when  possible.  Use  concise,  well-written  statements  of accomplishments  and  their  impact  on  the  unit,  wing,  command,  Air  Force,  or  DoD objectives,  operations,  or  missions.  Do  not  put  classified  information  in  the  nomination packages. 2.5.2.4.  Nominations  for  individuals  reassigned  to  a  different  unit  during  the  award period of service may address efforts performed in both units. 2.5.2.5.  If  the  nominee  deployed  during  the  award  period  of  service,  do  not  base  the nomination solely on the nominee’s deployed activities unless the member was deployed for the entire award period of service; address what the nominee accomplished while at his or her home unit as well. 2.5.2.6.  The nominations may address additional duties, personal development and base and  (or)  community  involvement  provided  they  are  activities  directly  linked  to information  dominance/cyberspace  support  to  the  warfighter,  unit,  base,  command,  Air Force, etc., and mission accomplishment. 2.5.2.7.  Do NOT discuss participation in fundraising activities for unit and private non-profit organizations such as booster clubs, Top 4, Air Force Association, AFCEA, and the like in any individual, team, or unit nominations. 2.5.2.8.  The  team  award  nomination  should  focus  only  on  one  special  project,  process improvement, or short-term endeavor; a special task that does not occur in a continuing assignment or mission.  In addition to the accomplishment bullets, a short narrative of the team’s charter is included in the nomination. Clearly identify how this team qualifies for consideration  in  this  category.    The  nomination  should  give  a  concise  picture  of  the chartered project and the team’s efforts to produce goal-oriented results that, when put in place,  improved  the  efficiency,  effectiveness,  and  economy  of  Air  Force  information dominance and chief information officer programs, operations, missions, and support to the warfighter. 2.5.2.9.  The  unit  award  nomination  should  focus  on  successes  associated  with maintaining  and  (or)  improving  information  technology  standards  or  capabilities.  Describe how the unit’s key processes and services impacted customers and Air Force or DoD objectives, operations, and missions. 2.6.  Nomination  Due  Date  and  Nominating  Authorities.  Nomination  packages  from  lower level  units  should  channel  through  respective  command  competitive  echelons.    Packages  from nominating  authorities  are  due  to  SAF/CIO  A6  Awards  workflow  e-mail  box  electronically  no later than 14 November of the current year. 2.6.1.  Air Force senior leaders or designated authorities at HQ USAF 2-letter offices are the nominating  officials  for  Air  Force  personnel  assigned  to  those  organizations.    Each organization can nominate no more than the number allowed in each of the award categories. 2.6.2.  MAJCOM/A6  or  designated  authority  at  Air  Force  major  commands  are  the nominating  officials  for  Air  Force  personnel  assigned  and  (or)  attached  to  the  headquarters AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   15  and its subordinate units.  Each command can nominate no more than the number allowed in each of the award categories. 2.6.3.  Directors or designated authority at unified combatant commands, combatant service component commands, and combined commands (J6) are nominating officials for Air Force personnel  permanently  assigned  and  (or)  attached  to  the  command  headquarters  and  its subordinate  units.    Each  unified  combatant  command,  combatant  service  component command, and combined command can nominate no more than the number allowed in each of the award categories. 2.6.4.  Commanders of Air Force DRUs and FOAs and commanders of other stand-alone Air Force  Elements  or  special  agencies  are  the  nominating  officials  for  Air  Force  personnel assigned  or  attached  to  those  organizations.    Each  organization  can  nominate  no  more  than the number allowed in each of the award categories. 2.7.  Selection  Panels,  Process,  and  Board  Rules  of  Engagement.  A6SF  administers  the information  dominance awards board and the same rules  as those cited for the General Jumper awards apply—reference paragraph 1.9, with one exception: board presidents for AFSC specific individual  awards  will  be  the  Air  Force  Career  Field  Managers  (17DXX,  3A1XX,  3D0XX, 3D1XX, 1BXXX, and civilians). 2.8.  Presenting  Awards.  SAF/  CIO  A6  announces  award  recipients  by  message  and  award elements will be mailed to the winner’s unit commander for presentation.   16  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 Chapter 3 DELETED AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   17  Chapter 4 NON-AIR FORCE AWARDS SPONSORED BY EXTERNAL ORGANIZATIONS 4.1.  Air Force Association (AFA) General Billy Mitchell Award for C4 Excellence. 4.1.1.  Purpose.  Named in honor of an air power pioneer whose service began in the Army Signal  Corps,  SAF/CIO  A6  and  AFA  cosponsor  this  award  to  recognize  Air  Force individuals  whose  cyberspace  support  contributions  most  enhanced  Air  Force’s  cyberspace operations and warfighting capability. 4.1.2.  Eligibility.  Enlisted through  Senior  Master  Sergeant) 3DXXX/1BXXX  and  Officers  (17D)  Airmen  selected  as  winners  of  the  Air  Force Information  Dominance  individual awards  addressed  in  Table  2.1.  compete  for  selection  as the recipient of the AFA’s General Billy Mitchell Award (Technical  Sergeant 4.1.3.  Recognition.  AFA  normally  recognizes  the  award  winner  during  the  AFA  annual convention  in  Washington,  DC,  normally  held  in  September  each  year.    AFA  notifies  the award  winner  as  well  as  the  winner’s  unit  commander  of  the  details  applicable  to  any presentation  ceremony.    The  award  recipient  may  attend  this  ceremony  at  government expense IAW AFI 36-2805; payment of travel and per diem costs associated with the event are the responsibility of the winner’s organization. This policy does not extend to the award winner’s  spouse  or  any  other  member  of  the  unit,  unless  a  requirement  exists  for  them  to participate  in  the  event  in  an  official  capacity.    Attendance  in  a  supporting  role  does  not constitute official participation. 4.2.  Air  Force  Communications  and  Air  Traffic  Controller  Association  (AFCOMMATC) Communicator of the Year Award 4.2.1.  Purpose.    SAF/CIO  A6  and  AFCOMMATC  cosponsor  this  award  to  recognize  Air Force  individuals  whose  cyberspace  support  contributions  most  enhanced  Air  Force’s cyberspace operations and warfighting capabilities. 4.2.2.  Eligibility.  Junior  enlisted  (Staff  Sergeant  and  below)  3DXXX  Airmen  selected  as winners of the Air Force Information Dominance individual awards addressed in Table 2.1. compete for selection as the recipient of AFCOMMATC award. 4.2.3.  Recognition. The AFCOMMATC Association normally recognizes the award winner during  their  annual  convention.    AFCOMMATC  notifies  the  award  winner  as  well  as  the winner’s  unit  commander  of  details  applicable  to  any  presentation  ceremony.    The  award recipient  may  attend  this  ceremony  at  government  expense  IAW  AFI  36-2805;  payment  of travel  and  per  diem  costs  associated  with  the  event  are  the  responsibility  of  the  winner’s organization.  This policy does not extend to the award winner’s spouse or any other member of  the  unit,  unless  a  requirement  exists  for  them  to  participate  in  the  event  in  an  official capacity.  Attendance in a supporting role does not constitute official participation. 4.3.  AFCEA DC Military IT Leadership Award. 4.3.1.  Purpose.  AFCEA Military IT Leadership Awards are given to service members who have  made  a  significant  contribution  to  their  fellow  Warfighters  through  the  use  of Information Technology.   18  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 4.3.2.  Eligibility.    Enlisted  and  Officers  from  each  of  the  five  Armed  Services,  either reservist  or  active  duty,  who  served  between  January  1,  and  December  31,  of  the  previous year  are  eligible  for  this  award.    Award  criteria  and  deadlines  are  published  annually  by are AFCEA at: http://www.afceadc.org/leadershipawardnominations. Nominations online DC.  made 4.3.3.  Recognition.  Award recipients receive recognition from AFCEA DC identifying their “Contribution to the Warfighter through the use of Information Technology”.  The recipients are  recognized  by  their  peers  in  the  Mil‐ Gov  Information  Technology  community  – government,  industry  and  academia  –  at  two  events:  the  Annual  AFCEA  DC  Spring Leadership Awards Dinner, followed by a regional luncheon. 4.4.  National  Security  Agency  (NSA)  Information  Assurance,  Frank  B.  Rowlett, Individual and Organizational Recognition Program. 4.4.1.  Purpose.  NSA  established  this  award  in  honor  of  a  cryptology  pioneer,  Frank  B. Rowlett,  to  recognize  both  individuals  and  the  unit  that  have  made  the  most  significant contributions  to  improving  information  systems  security,  operational  information  assurance readiness, or enhancing the defensive information operations posture of the United States. 4.4.2.  Eligibility. Military members and federal civilian employees, teams, and organizations from any level of command are eligible for the NSA awards 4.4.3.  Nominating Procedures. Commanders and supervisors should refer to NSA’s website for  nomination  format  guidance.    Send  the  packages  to  SAF/CIO  A6  Awards  Workflow  e-mail box.  A6SF staff works closely with commanders and supervisors during this phase of the program. 4.4.4.  Recognition. It is normal practice for NSA to conduct a ceremony during the month of November to recognize those selected as the top three finalists.  Out of the top three finalists, NSA  announces  one  overall  winner.    Any  travel  and  per  diem  costs  associated  with  this ceremony are normally funded by NSA or the winner’s organization. 4.5.  Department of Defense Chief Information Officer Awards. 4.5.1.  Purpose.    DoD  CIO  sponsors  two  annual  awards  programs—the  DoD  CIO  Annual Award, which started in 2001, and the DoD CIO Secure Information Sharing Award, which started  in  2009.    The  DoD  CIO  Annual  Award  is  based  on  the  intent  of  the  Information Technology (IT) Management Reform Act of 1996 (Title 40, U.S.C. 1401(3), Clinger-Cohen Act).    It  recognizes  achievements  in  any  one  or  more  of  the  following  areas:  acquisition, architecture  and  interoperability,  information  assurance,  management  and  standards, application  (technology  and/or  process),  capital  planning  and  investment,  Information Management (IM)/IT workforces, and data management. 4.5.2.  Eligibility. Military members and federal civilian employees, teams, and organizations from  any  level  of  command  are  eligible  for  the  DoD  CIO  awards.    Both  award  programs target  those  who  are  in  ranks  and  grades  below  the  flag  officer  and  SES  level.    Contract personnel are not eligible. 4.5.3.  Nomination Packages. 4.5.3.1.  Nominations should be accurate and succinct.  Nominations clearly identify the name  of  the  nominee  or  nominated  team,  position  title  (if  appropriate),  organizational AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   19  address  and  should  describe  the  successes  that  qualify  the  nominee  for  the  award  as clearly and persuasively as possible.  Use short, concise (one-line) bullet statements; page orientation  is  portrait  with  0.75  inch  margins  all  around;  single-line  spacing;  not  to exceed one page in length.  Format the nomination in the same fashion as that outlined in Attachment 6. 4.5.3.2.  The DoD CIO  Annual Award nominations should focus on one or  more of the Title  40,  U.S.C.  1401(3)  areas  in  which  nominated.    Although  this  award  program focuses on accomplishments performed during the fiscal year of nomination, writers may include  the  previous  years’  activities,  providing  the  activities  are  completed  during  the year of nomination. 4.5.4.  Nomination  Due  Date  and  Nominating  Authorities  for  USAF  Personnel  and  Teams.  Nomination packages are due to SAF/CIO A6 Awards workflow e-mail box no later than the first  duty  day  in  April  each  year.    Nominations  documenting  a  deployed  member’s achievements  compete  through  the  deployed  member’s  home-station  unit  and  owning command, regardless of the length of the member’s deployment. 4.5.4.1.  MAJCOM/A6  (or  designated  authorities)  are  the  nominating  officials  for  Air Force personnel assigned or attached to the command.  Each command can nominate one individual and one team. 4.5.4.2.  Air Force leaders (or designated authorities) at HQ USAF 2-letter offices are the nominating  officials  for  Air  Force  personnel  assigned  to  those  organizations.    Each organization can nominate one individual and one team. 4.5.4.3.  Commanders  of  Air  Force-  and  command-level  DRUs  and  FOAs  and commanders  of  AFEs  assigned  to  commands  outside  of  Air  Force  are  the  nominating officials  for  Air  Force  personnel  assigned  or  attached  to  those  organizations.    Each organization can nominate one individual and one team. 4.5.5.  Selection Process.  The Air Force judging panel bases selections for DoD CIO annual awards on the nominees’ demonstrated performance and leadership in information delivery, management capability, cost avoidance and savings, benefits to a broad user base, improved processes, mission impact, and net-centricity.  The DoD and Air Force selection boards place special  emphasis  on  positive  returns  on  investment,  strong  mission  effect,  and  outstanding achievements in more than one of the Title 40, U.S.C. 1401(3) areas and a positive effect to a broader  user  base.    They  base  selections  for  DoD  CIO  awards  on  the  nominee’s  ability  to reinforce  progress  by  finding  new  ways  to  improve  security  and  share  information.  Individuals and teams selected as Air Force nominees go on to compete for the DoD awards. 4.6.  Defense  Information  System  Agency  (DISA)  Defense  Information  System  Network (DISN)  Facility  of  the  Year  Awards.  DISA  sponsors  these  award  programs  to  recognize outstanding achievements and contributions that ensured both positive management and control of the DISN and the guaranteed availability of DISN services.  Nominations from DISN facilities in the DISA continental United States (CONUS) are due to SAF/CIO A6 Awards Workflow e-mail  box,  through  command  channels,  when  specified  by  A6SF.    Nominations  should  be accurate, succinct, and describe the accomplishments that qualify the nominee for the award as clearly and persuasively as possible and address each of the topics outlined in DISA’s message calling for nominations.  Avoid using acronyms, jargon, and technical terminology that is unique   20  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 only to the unit and Air Force.  Air Force DISN facilities in the DISA European and Pacific areas should follow the instructions published by DISA agencies in the European and Pacific localities. 4.7.  Records and Forms. 4.7.1.  Records.    Retain  and  dispose  of  these  records  pertaining  to  award  nominations according to the AF RDS, Table 36-33, Rules 1 through 3, in AFRIMS.  WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lt Gen, USAF Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   21  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Title 5, U.S.C., Government Organization and Employees, current edition Title 10, U.S.C., Armed Forces, current edition Title 40, U.S.C., 1401(3), Clinger-Cohen Act, current edition AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 30 Jul 2012 AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 19 Oct 2012 AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006 AFI 36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, 3 Dec 2009 AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 14 Mar 2013 AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 Mar 2011 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Joint Travel Regulation, Appendix E, current edition AF Records Disposition Schedule  in AFRIMS, https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm  Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force (when used with a form number) AFA—Air Force Association AFCEA—Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association AFC4A—Air Force Command, Control, Communications and Computer Association AFE—Air Force Element AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center (formerly Air Force Communications Agency) AFPD—Air Force policy directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code AFSPC—Air Force Space Command ANG—Air National Guard AOC—Air and Space Operations Center CIO—Chief Information Officer   22  AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015 CGO—Company Grade Officer CONUS—Continental United States CoP—Community of Practice C2—Command and Control C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence DAFSC—Duty Air Force Specialty Code DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency DoD—Department of Defense DODIN—DoD Integrated Networks DRU—direct reporting unit E-mail—electronic mail FGO—Field Grade Officer FOA—field operations agency GSA—General Services Administration HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force IA—information assurance ID—information dominance IM—information management IMT—information management tool IRMCO—Interagency Resource Management Conference ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance IT—information technology JFTR/JTR—Joint Forces Travel Regulation/Joint Travel Regulation MAJCOM—major command NCO—Noncommissioned Officer NSA—National Security Agency OPR—office of primary responsibility RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RIP—Report of Individual Personnel Information Sheet SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SDI—special duty identifier SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer AFI36-2845  7 JULY 2015   23  SURF—Single Unit Retrieval Format TDY—Temporary Duty USAF—United States Air Force U.S.C.—United States Code  