BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3803 7 JUNE 2016 Personnel PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONJUNCTION WITH NATURAL DISASTERS OR NATIONAL EMERGENCIES  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   This publication is available for downloading from the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  A1XO  Supersedes:  AFI 36-3803, 21 December 2010  Certified by: AF/A1  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 19    This  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  36-38, Personnel  Readiness.  This  instruction  provides  guidance  for  establishing  and  maintaining personnel  accountability  in  the event  of natural  disasters or national  emergencies for Air Force (AF)  personnel  in  accordance  with  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI)  3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with National Emergencies or Natural Disasters. This AFI applies to both the continental United States (CONUS) and locations outside the continental United  States  (OCONUS),  but  is  not  intended  to  supersede  AFI  10-216,  Evacuating  and Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other US Noncombatants. This instruction applies to  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC)  Units  and  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG).    In collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  AFR  (AF/RE)  and  the  Director  of  the  ANG  (NGB/CF),  the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for  the  evacuation  of  U.S.  citizens  and  designated  aliens  from  threatened  areas  abroad.    This publication may be supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM supplements must be approved by the  Human  Resource  Management  Strategic  Board  (HSB)  prior  to  certification  and  approval. This  publication  requires  the  collection  and  or  maintenance  of  information  protected  by  the Privacy Act  (PA) of 1974.  The authorities to collect  and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code 8013, DODI 3001.02 and Executive Order 9397 (SSN), as amended, Numbering System For Federal Accounts Relating To Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008.  Forms affected by the PA have an  appropriate  PA  statement.  System  of  records  notice  F036  AFPC  R  Air  Force  Personnel 2 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 Accountability  and  Assessment  System  (AFPAAS)  (May  7,  2009,  74  FR  20935)  applies.    The authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance items.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  revised  to  updated  office  symbols  and  added  tier  waiver  authority information. 1.  CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS. 1.1.  Background.  Per DoD instruction, upon the occurrence of a disaster and when directed, all  DoD  Components  shall  report  personnel  accountability  to  the  Personnel  Accountability Reporting  System  (PARS),  the  DoD  central  repository  for  accountability  information  and reporting.    DoD  may  direct  accountability  of  DoD  members  when  it  is  determined  that  a disaster event or national emergency has the potential to significantly impact DoD affiliated members.  (T-0)    DoD  in  conjunction  with  the  Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency (FEMA), when applicable, establishes the geographical area of interest (GAOI), and notifies the  Defense  Manpower  Data  Center  (DMDC)  to  create  an  accountability  event  in  PARS.  The  baseline  PARS  data  is  uploaded  into  the  Air  Force  Personnel  Accountability  and Assessment  System  (AFPAAS)  as  a  disaster  event  or  national  emergency.    The  AF developed  AFPAAS  as  the  tool  to  quickly  obtain  personnel  accountability  and  report  it  to PARS to comply with the DoD requirement.  AFPAAS identifies members assigned or living in  the  GAOI  and  provides  valuable  information  to  the  Air  Force  chain  of  command  and enables commanders at all levels to make strategic decisions.  Senior AF leaders may direct the use of AFPAAS in the absence of a DoD requirement to report in PARS if they determine an  event  could  impact  large  numbers  of  AF  personnel.    MAJCOM  and  local  commanders may  request  use  of  AFPAAS  for  exercises  or  inspections.    AFPAAS  reporting  efforts  end when all impacted members are accounted for or when discontinued by AF leadership and/or chain of command. 1.2.  Introduction.    This  instruction  outlines  accountability  requirements  and  procedures  for Air Force units, agencies, commanders, directors and Joint assigned Air Force members. In order to ensure all personnel are accounted for, it is paramount all Air Force installations and units  have  recall  and  evacuation  plans  in  place  and  personnel  are  aware  of  their responsibilities to ensure fast, accurate accountability. 1.3.  Scope.    The  roles  and  responsibilities  of  involved  agencies  are  fully  explained  in  this instruction. Understanding and accomplishing these roles and responsibilities are crucial for ensuring  the  accurate  and  timely  actions  necessary  to  establish  Total  Force  Accountability. Central to accountability during a disaster event is the commander’s inherent responsibility to AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 3 ensure  awareness  of  the  status  of  personnel  under  their  command.  Commanders  must  take prudent measures and apply the guidance outlined in this instruction to ensure they are able to account for all personnel. (T-1)  This instruction is intended to aid commanders and those involved in  personnel  accountability  by  providing  guidance  on  accountability  for victims/survivors of an event. It is not intended to govern accountability for forces deployed in support of rescue, recovery, or contingency operations. 1.4.  Total Force Accountability Concept. 1.4.1.  Total  Force  Accountability  (TFA)  is  defined  as  the  accurate  accounting  of  Air Force  personnel  at  all  times,  regardless  of  location.    AFPAAS  may  be  used  to  achieve TFA  and  report  information  to  higher  headquarters  during  a  disaster  event  or  national emergency. 1.4.2.  For  the  purpose  of  this  instruction,  the  term  “Total  Force”  includes  RegAF,  Air Force  Reserve  (AFR),  Air  National  Guard  (ANG),  Department  of  the  Air  Force  (DAF) and Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) civilians, Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System  (DEERS)  enrolled  family  members,  family  members  of  DAF/NAF  employees (when receiving evacuation entitlements) and contractors and their family member when employed  OCONUS.    AF  members  with  multiple  DoD-affiliations  (e.g.  Civil  Service employee  and  a  traditional  Reservist  or  family  member)  have  one  record  for accountability purposes and are counted and reported once to AF leadership and DMDC via AFPAAS and PARS.  NOTE - Whether or not DoD takes accountability of contract employees and their families is dependent upon whether DoD has agreed to do it in the contract.  If DoD has not, or it is not provided for in the Status of Forces Agreement, then accountability of the contractor rests with the company he/she works for and not DoD. 1.4.3.  Specifically, this instruction applies to: 1.4.3.1.  RegAF members and their DEERS-enrolled family members. 1.4.3.2.  Selected Reserve (SELRES): 1.4.3.2.1.  Air  National  Guard  Active  Duty  Title  10,  Active  Duty  Title  32,  State Active  Duty,  Drilling  Guardsmen  (Traditional  and  ANG  Technicians),  and DEERS-enrolled family members of these Guard categories (see 1.4.3.4. below). 1.4.3.2.2.  Reserve on Title 5 and 10 Active Duty, Drilling Reservist (Traditional and Air Reserve Technicians), Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs), and the  DEERS  enrolled  family  members  of  these  Reserve  categories  (see  1.4.3.4. below). 1.4.3.3.  Air Force members assigned to Joint or Defense organizations. 1.4.3.4.  DAF and NAF civilian employees. 1.4.3.5.  Family  members  of  RegAF,  ANG,  certain  AFR  (described  in  paragraphs 1.4.3.2.1. and 1.4.3.2.2.) who are actively enrolled in DEERS and physically residing in the area of concern. 1.4.3.6.  Family  members  of  DAF/NAF  employees  when  those  family  members  are receiving evacuation entitlements. 1.4.3.7.  Personnel TDY, on leave, or on a pass. 4 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 1.4.3.8.  When the impacted area is OCONUS, all DAF sponsored military, civilians, contractors, to include all family members.  Foreign nationals are excluded. 1.5.  Wherever and whenever possible, personnel accountability procedures follow the chain of  command  and  mirror  normal  day  to  day  reporting  procedures.    In  the  event  regular reporting  channels  are  not  viable,  individuals  and  units  use  any  means  available  to  report accountability information to AF, DoD, Federal or State agencies. 1.6.  In  the  event  of  a  disaster  or  national  emergency  and  when  directed  by  AF  leadership, AFPAAS  is  the  system  used  to  attain  and  report  TFA.    AFPAAS  utilizes  data  from  the DMDC’s  PARS  database  to  identify  members  assigned  or  living  in  the  affected  area.  AFPAAS  provides  valuable  information  to  the  Air  Force  chain  of  command,  enabling commanders  at  all  levels  to  make  strategic  decisions  which  facilitate  a  return  to  normal operations following a disaster or national emergency. 2.  RESPONSIBILITIES.  Personnel  accountability  is  inherent  to  command  and  is  a  shared responsibility  between  a  commander/director,  supervisor  and  their  assigned  personnel.    Under certain  circumstances  however,  a  commander’s  ability  to  accurately  track  and  account  for  the required  forces and certain  family members may  be greatly impeded.  Utilizing robust systems and ensuring individual members are aware of reporting requirements ensure that accountability can be achieved in the direst of situations. 2.1.  The Air Force Crisis Action Team (AFCAT) Director will: 2.1.1.  Initiate TFA actions via established command and control procedures. 2.1.2.  Publish  a  message  or  e-mail  to  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  CAT  Directors requiring  all  commanders/directors  to  identify  personnel  who  reside  in,  are  assigned  to, are TDY, on a pass (if known), or on leave from their unit in the GAOI, and directing the 100  percent  accountability  of  their  personnel  as  soon  as  possible,  but  not  later  than  48 hours after TFA is mandated. 2.2.  Headquarters USAF/Force Support Readiness Division (AF/A1XR) will: 2.2.1.  Represent the AF/A1 when the AFCAT is activated. 2.2.2.  Activate the Air Force Personnel Center/Personnel Readiness Cell (AFPC/PRC). 2.2.3.  Provide guidance (through the AFCAT Director) to the MAJCOM CAT Directors. 2.2.4.  Coordinate  with  the  Combatant  Command  if  crisis  dictates  early  return  of deployed  personnel.    The  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  Air  Expeditionary  Forces  and Personnel  Operations  Directorate  (AFPC/DPW)  and  Personnel  Readiness  Cell (AFPC/PRC)  work  with  impacted  MAJCOMs,  Installation  Personnel  Readiness  (IPR) offices and Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO) Teams, IAW AFI 36-3802,  Personnel  Readiness  Operations,  to  have  affected  individuals  identified, returned and replaced if requested by the Combatant Commander. 2.2.5.  Notify  AFPC/DPW  to  create  and  activate  an  AFPAAS  event  upon  direction  of OSD,  Joint  Staff  or  HAF  leadership.    AF/A1XR  will  monitor  AFPAAS  during disaster/emergency events to track the accountability progress and provide status reports to  HAF  leadership  as  requested  until  100%  accountability  is  attained  or  reporting  is suspended. AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 5 2.3.  Headquarters USAF/Airman and Family Services Division (AF/A1SA) will: 2.3.1.  Provide  direction  and  assistance  to  the  Air  Force  Personnel  Center/Airman  and Family  Support  Branch  (AFPC/DPFFS),  the  AF  lead  agency  for  assisting  personnel during  evacuation  and  repatriation  (IAW  AFI  10-216),  during  an  OCONUS  crisis requiring  Non-combatant  Evacuation  Operations  (NEO),  repatriation  operations  and/or safe haven entitlements. 2.4.  Air Force Personnel Center/Personnel Readiness Cell will: 2.4.1.  Serve  as  the  primary  distribution  and  collection  point  for  information  regarding impacted/ threatened personnel. (T-1) 2.4.2.  Contact AFPC Public Affairs (PA) Office to ensure  appropriate link to AFPAAS is  prominently  highlighted  on  AF  Portal  and  on  AFPC  main  webpage  for  impacted personnel within 24 hours of the event. (T-1) 2.4.2.1.  Coordinate with AFPC/PA on news releases and media outreach as needed. 2.4.3.  Update the message on AFPC/PRC’s toll free number with the latest status of the impacted  military  installation(s)  based  on  input  from  the  respective  MAJCOM  and/or Wing-level CAT/A1 (e.g., FSS/CC) representative’s instructions. (T-1) 2.4.4.  Implement  and  rescind  STOP  MOVEMENT  at  the  request  of  the  Installation Commander(s) of the impacted base(s)/Geographically Separated Units (GSU)/personnel and coordinate this action with AFPC/PA and AFPC Director of Assignments (DPA). (T-1) 2.4.5.  Provide,  upon  request  from  the  AFCAT,  pertinent  information  regarding deployed/deploying  personnel  assigned  to,  or  with  family  members  (paragraph  1.4.3.4.) living in the impacted area (e.g., dependent children living with a former spouse). (T-1)  The  following  categories  are  queried  and  the  affected  MAJCOM(s)  are  contacted  to determine  if  deployed  personnel  impacted  by  the  crisis  should  return  and,  if  necessary, implement notification procedures. 2.4.5.1.  Personnel  due  to  return  from  deployment  within  30  days  of  the  event  (flag and count personnel who are actually en route). 2.4.5.2.  Personnel preparing to deploy from the same area. 2.4.5.3.  Personnel deployed who may have to return early as a result of the event. 2.4.6.  Serve as the AFPAAS Program Manager and develop procedures to execute TFA guidance.  (T-1)    AFPC/PRC  will  assign  AFPAAS  Commanding  Officer  Representative (COR) access to MAJCOM readiness staffs and to AFCAT/A1 members as required. (T-1).  Additionally  AFPC/PRC  will  ensure  all  assigned  MAJCOM  personnel  readiness offices are trained on the use of AFPAAS. (T-1) 2.4.7.  Create  and  activate  an  AFPAAS  event  when  notified  by  HAF  and  provide  event management  in  support  of  AF-wide  personnel  accountability  operations.  (T-1)    Event management  includes  working  with  MAJCOM  and  unit  command  channels  to  obtain accountability of affected individuals. 2.5.  Air Force Personnel Center/Airman and Family Support Branch (AFPC/DPFFS) will: 6 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 2.5.1.  Ensure installation Airman & Family Readiness Centers (A&FRC) are trained and prepared  to  assist  commanders  with  the  activation  of  an  Emergency  Family  Assistance Center  (EFAC).  (T-1)    The  EFAC’s  primary  mission  is  to  maintain  the  practical  and emotional  needs  of  families  of  DoD  casualties  and  personnel  affected  by  the  disaster.  The EFAC will serve as the focal point for family assistance services. (T-1)  The EFAC, prescribed  by  DODI  1342.22,  Military  Family  Readiness  and  AFI  36-3009,  Airman  & Family Readiness Centers, will serve as a staging area where families can obtain disaster relief, contingency information and other services. (T-0) 2.5.1.1.  AFPC/DPFFS  uses  AFPAAS  to  connect  A&FRC  Case  Managers  (CMs) with  personnel  affected  by  a  disaster  and  complete  a  needs  assessment  within  the system.    Case  management  notes  are  updated  in  AFPAAS  and  are  viewable  by  the chain  of  command.    If  AFPAAS  is  unavailable  or  when  actions  require  follow  up, AFPC/DPFFS will provide updates to  the installation A&FRC with  a courtesy  copy to  their  respective  MAJCOM  Airman  and  Family  Readiness  Branch/installation support  staff  so  AFPC/DPFFS  can  act  as  focal  point  for  dissemination  of  timely information for affected families (excluding casualty notification). (T-1) 2.5.1.2.  Alerts  designated  A&FRCs  (with  a  courtesy  copy  to  their  respective MAJCOM Airman & Family Readiness Branch/MAJCOM installation support staff) to prepare for personnel and/or families who are evacuating from the GAOI and may arrive in their area of responsibility.  Support from designated A&FRC includes, but is not limited to, guidance on relocation assistance, financial counseling, employment services, personal and work life issues, and eligibility of services if applicable. 2.5.1.3.  AFPC/DPFFS  will  comply  with  the  DoD  Joint  Plan  for  Noncombatant Evacuation  Operation  (NEO)  and  is  the  operational  element  for  support  to  AF families  during  NEO  and  repatriation  operations.  (T-0)    AFPC/DPFFS  will  provide guidance/coordination  to  the  installation  A&FRC  at  each  location  being  evacuated, the temporary safe haven or intermediate stop (if applicable), and the repatriation site that processes families back into the U.S. (T-0) 2.5.1.3.1.  AFPC/DPFFS will track, account, report and ensure follow-up support is provided to family members during preparation, evacuation and safe haven. (T-0)  When DD Form 2585, Repatriation Processing Center Processing Sheet, is not collected  at  a repatriation site, AFPC/DPFFS will  contact  the  closest  installation A&FRC  to  ensure  they  complete  the  DD  Form  2585  and  input the  data  into  the web-based Automated Repatriation Reporting System (ARRS). (T-0) 2.5.1.4.  AFPC/DPFFS  will  ensure  the  A&FRCs  have  trained  AFPAAS  case managers  ready  to  evaluate  cases  assigned  them.  (T-1)    They  provide  support  to members and families ensuring connection to appropriate helping agencies. 2.5.1.5.  AFPC/DPFFS  will  assign  cases  to  case  managers  as  evacuees  voluntarily complete needs assessments in AFPAAS and ensure the A&FRC makes contact with members. (T-1) 2.5.1.6.  Monitor  AFPAAS  during  evacuation/emergency  events  to  track  personal needs  assessments  of  personnel  and  families,  ensure  case  managers  are  assigned  to contact  and  provide  assistance  IAW  AFI  36-3009,  Airman  &  Family  Readiness AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 7 Centers, and provide status updates to HAF leadership as requested or until reporting is suspended. 2.6.  Major Commands (MAJCOMs), ANG and  Air Force  District  of Washington  (AFDW) will: 2.6.1.  Using  command  and  control  channels,  recommend  to  HAF  the  need  for  an AFPAAS  event  to  report  personnel  accountability  when  one  of  their  installations  is impacted by a natural disaster or national emergency.  Each MAJCOM, ANG and AFDW will  account  for  their  personnel  (paragraph  1.4.)  assigned  to  any  base  or  living  in  an outlying  area impacted by  the natural  disaster or  national  emergency and  any personnel on Leave/TDY in the area of concern in AFPAAS. (T-0) 2.6.1.1.  ANG personnel (paragraph 1.4.) accountability is reported through AFPAAS and the affected State Joint Force Headquarters (JFHQ) to the National Guard Bureau (NGB)  Joint  Operations  Center’s  Manpower  and  Personnel  directorate  (JOC/J1)  in accordance  with  the  NGB/J1  guidance  during  a  Joint  Staff  directed  accountability event. 2.6.1.1.1.  ANG  personnel  (paragraph  1.4.)  in  Title  10  status  will  report accountability  via  AFPAAS  through  their  supporting  active-duty  Military Personnel Element. (T-1) 2.6.1.2.  Tasked  with  administration  and  support  of  HQ  USAF  (HAF)  and  assigned Air  Force  units  and  personnel  within  the  National  Capital  Region,  AFDW  will function as the MAJCOM responsible for the HAF accountability. 2.6.1.3.  AFDW will function as the MAJCOM  responsible for the accountability of AF members assigned to AF Elements (AFELMS) which are administrative devices designed  solely  to  account  for  AF  authorizations  and  personnel  serving  in  non-AF activities,  such  as  defense  agencies,  joint  and  unified  commands,  international activities and government agencies worldwide. (T-0) 2.6.2.  MAJCOM,  ANG,  and  AFDW  will  ensure  all  personnel,  to  include  GSUs  and Tenant Units have shelter-in-place or evacuation plans. (T-0) 2.6.3.  Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)  and  ANG will make provisions to  include evacuation or shelter-in-place plans on ARC members who may not work in the affected area  but  who  live  in  the  affected  area  (traditional  ARC  members  may  live  in  different states than they drill). 2.6.4.  MAJCOM,  ANG,  and  AFDW  will  direct  Logistics,  Installations,  and  Mission Support  (A4/7)  to  ensure  all  Wing/Installation  commanders  and  GSUs  have  evacuation plans  and  tracking  procedures  in  place  to  account  for  all  personnel  in  the  event  of  a natural disaster or national emergency. (T-0) 2.6.4.1.  ANG, through appropriate authority, will coordinate Logistics, Installations, and  Mission  Support  to  ensure  all  Wing/Installation  commanders  and  GSUs  have evacuation plans and tracking procedures in place to account for all personnel in the event of a natural disaster or national emergency. 2.6.5.  MAJCOMs  will  develop  plans  and  procedures  for  delegation  of  personnel accountability  responsibilities,  should  their  organization  be  involved  in  the  natural 8 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 disaster or national emergency and be unable to perform their duties outlined in this AFI.  These  may  be  stand-alone  plans  or  be  incorporated  in  Emergency  Management  or Continuity of Operations (COOP) Plans. 2.7.  MAJCOM CAT Director will: 2.7.1.  At  the  direction  of  AFCAT  Director,  notify  their  assigned  installations,  stand-alone units and MAJCOM staff to initiate TFA actions. 2.7.2.  Notify  the  AFCAT  Director  when  one  of  their  assigned  installations  is  impacted by a natural disaster or national emergency requiring an AFPAAS event. 2.8.  MAJCOM CAT/A1 Representatives, MAJCOM A1 Readiness Staff, and ANG A1 will: 2.8.1.  Ensure  accountability  responsibilities  are  accomplished  when  a  servicing  Force Support Squadron (FSS) is unable to perform those functions. 2.8.1.1.  ANG, accountability responsibilities  are  accomplished  when  a  servicing  FSS  or  equivalent  is  unable  to perform those functions. authority,  will ensure through appropriate 2.8.2.  Monitor AFPAAS to track the accountability progress of MAJCOM personnel to identify deviations and recommend course of action to appropriate leadership/agency. 2.8.2.1.  Monitor  AFPAAS  to  track  the  progress  of  assigned  IPRs  in  achieving accountability of their tenants/GSUs assigned members. 2.8.3.  Consolidate any published evacuation orders received from the Wing CAT/A1 for DAF and NAF civilian dependents. 2.8.4.  Ensure  units  not  within  the  affected  area  emphasize  the  need  for  awareness  of possible  evacuees  arriving  on  base  who  may  need  to  have  individual  evacuation  orders published. If evacuation orders for DAF or NAF civilian family members are published by any unit outside the affected area, a listing of the names published in the order should be collected by the MAJCOM CAT/A1 representative or MAJCOM A1 Readiness staff if the CAT is not activated. Listing should be forwarded to the AFPC/PRC. 2.8.5.  Work  with  MAJCOM  CAT  Director  or  NGB  JOC/J1  to  contact  installation commanders  of  bases/GSUs  in  impacted  area  to  consider  STOP  MOVEMENT  as situation warrants. 2.8.6.  Grant  appropriate  access  to  all  assigned  Installation  Personnel  Readiness  (IPR) offices, GSUs and Tenant Units located on other MAJCOM’s installation(s). 2.8.7.  Ensure  all  assigned  IPR  personnel  are  trained  on  their  TFA  responsibilities, including the use of AFPAAS. 2.8.8.  Provide status reports to MAJCOM leadership or NGB JOC/J1 as requested until 100% accountability is attained or reporting is suspended by higher headquarters. 2.8.9.  Provide  AFPAAS  Event  Management  support  to  subordinate  units  for  local  or MAJCOM  inspections/exercises  and  in  support  of  OSD,  Joint  Staff  or  HAF  directed accountability  for  emergencies  and  manmade  or  natural  disasters.  Event  management includes  working  with  unit  command  channels  to  obtain  accountability  of  affected individuals. AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 9 2.9.  Installation Commanders or equivalents will recommend to their HHQ using the current command and control process  (i.e., Command Post) to  initiate AF-wide use of AFPAAS to report accountability when an event warrants the use of AFPAAS. (T-1) 2.9.1.  Direct  TFA  for  assigned,  tenant  and  GSUs  and  monitor  AFPAAS  to  track  the accountability progress of those units until 100% accountability is achieved or reporting is  suspended.    Incorporate  TFA  guidance  into  emergency  management  plans,  command and control processes, support agreements and all unit recall procedures. 2.9.1.1.  Ensure  installation  Command  Post  or  equivalents  distribute  TFA  messages (e.g. WARNORD, EXORD, ENDEX) to all assigned, tenant and GSUs in accordance with established local procedures or agreements. 2.9.2.  Ensure  unit  commanders  are  aware  of  their  responsibilities  as  outlined  in  this instruction  and  that  shelter-in-place  or  evacuation  plans  for  installations  have  fully addressed the need to account for the categories of personnel described in this instruction as soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours after TFA is directed. (T-1) 2.9.3.  Ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with AFPAAS and their responsibility if displaced for personnel to contact their leadership, keep them informed of their location, and  account  for  family  members  who  area  actively  enrolled  in  DEERS  and  physically residing in the area of concern. (T-1) 2.9.3.1.  Once  a  member  has  arrived  at  a  safe  evacuation  location,  their  first  act should be to report their status and location to their unit of assignment via AFPAAS or other established means. 2.9.3.2.  If  a  member  is  unable  to  report  their  status  via  AFPAAS  or  contact  their UCC  they  should  immediately  contact  the  AFPC/PRC  at  1-800-435-9941  to  report their whereabouts. AFPC/PRC is manned 24/7 to respond to any emergency. 2.9.4.  In  the  event  a  member  is  stranded  in  a  crisis  area  with  no  communications available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red Cross, local police, FEMA, etc.) and ask that agency to report the status of the member to the Air Force through any means available. 2.9.5.  Installation  Commanders  or  equivalents  will  brief  all  military  members  on  the importance of having their family members report their status in the event they evacuate without  the  military  member  via  AFPAAS  or  other  means.  (T-1)  Commanders  are encouraged to emphasize the military’s concern for the safety of family members and the vital need for positive contact to allow for maximum assistance to the family members. 2.10.  Wing CAT Director will: 2.10.1.  Direct accountability for the installation as required. (T-1) 2.11.  Wing CAT/A1 Representative will: 2.11.1.  Ensure the position is filled by the FSS/CC (or equivalent) or any other member as determined by Wing leadership. (T-1) 2.11.2.  Act  as  the  primary  information  conduit  between  the  impacted  units,  the installation’s senior leadership and the MAJCOM CAT/A1 representative. (T-1) 10 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 2.11.3.  Inform  MAJCOM  and/or  AFPC/PRC  if  STOP  MOVEMENT  is  requested  and the expected timeline for its rescission. (T-1) 2.11.4.  Send a copy of the Blanket Evacuation Order and radius of authorized evacuation to  AFPC/PRC organization e-mail  box (afpc.dpfr.prc@us.af.mil) to  post on the AFPC website.  (T-1)    Sends  a  courtesy  copy  of  these  messages  to  the  AFCAT  A1 AF/A1SA (afcat.a1@pentagon.af.mil), (afa2sa.division@pentagon.af.mil). to FGC/Battle  Watch  (fgc.battlewatch@us.af.mil  and  afrc.cat.unclas@us.af.mil).  (T-1)  ANG Wings will forward information to the ANG/CAT (ngrcngb.a1pr@ang.af.mil  (T-1))   AFRC  Wings  will  forward information MAJCOM CAT/A1s, and 2.11.5.  Consolidate  any  published  evacuation  orders  received  from  the  Unit  Control Centers  (UCC)  or  Commander’s  Support  Staffs  (CSS)  for  DAF  and  NAF  civilian dependents  only  and  forward  to  MAJCOM  CAT/A1.  (T-1)    There  is  no  requirement  to forward copies of evacuation orders of military dependents. 2.12.  Unit  Commanders/Directors,  Headquarters  Staff  Directors,  AF  Element Directors/Chiefs, and Personnel Accountability Managers will: 2.12.1.  Unit commanders are the first and most critical link when it comes to establishing accountability of assigned members.  Realize the Air Force’s ability to track its members succeeds or fails based on their efforts. 2.12.2.  Account for assigned military, DAF and NAF civilians, DEERS enrolled family members,  family  members  of  DAF/  NAF  employees  (when  receiving  evacuation entitlements)  and  OCONUS  assigned  contractors  and  their  family  members  as  soon  as possible, but not later than 48 hours after TFA is directed. (T-1)  All reasonable efforts to include  unit  telephone  recalls,  review  of  automated  tools  (LeaveWeb,  Defense  Travel System, etc.) should be made to obtain the status of assigned members and their family members following a disaster event.  NOTE  - Whether or not DoD takes accountability of contract  employees and their families is  dependent  upon whether DoD has agreed to do  it  in  the  contract.    If  DoD  has  not,  or  it  is  not  provided  for  in  the  Status  of  Forces Agreement, then accountability of the contractor rests with the company he/she works for and not DoD. 2.12.2.1.  When unable to account for members after all reasonable efforts have been made  to  do  so,  review  AFI  36-3002,  Casualty  Services,  Chapter  2,  Section  2C  for guidance and contact the local Casualty Assistance Representative for assistance. (T-1) 2.12.3.  Verify  all  members,  military,  DAF,  and  NAF  civilians,  assigned  to  their  units have shelter-in-place or evacuation plans that are reasonable, actionable, and current. (T-1)  Ensure these plans are maintained in a centralized location or database so they may be accessed  or  transmitted  from/to  an  alternate  location  with  little  or  no  warning.  Ensure they are reviewed annually, at a minimum. 2.12.3.1.  Ensure  unit  members  verify  addresses  in  Military  Personnel  Data  System (MilPDS)  or  Civilian  Personnel  Data  System  (CPDS)  annually.  (T-1)    In  addition, members  will  verify  AFPAAS  information  and  required  corrections  will be  updated through the DEERS link available through AFPAAS. (T-1) AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 11 2.12.4.  Brief  all  military  members  annually  on  the  importance  of  having  their  family members  use  AFPAAS  to  report  their  status  in  the  event  they  evacuate  without  the military member. (T-1)  Commanders are encouraged to emphasize the military’s concern for  the  safety  of  family  members  and  the  vital  need  for  positive  contact  to  allow  for maximum assistance to the family members. 2.12.5.  Brief  all  civilian  personnel  on  the  need  for  their  assistance  in  reporting  their status (and in some cases the status of their family members) in the event of a disaster or crisis. (T-1) 2.12.5.1.  Emphasize to employees that civilians on leave or on a pass when a disaster happens can assist greatly in achieving 100 percent accountability by using AFPAAS, calling back to their supervisor or commander/director to confirm they are safe. 2.12.6.  Ensure  all  civilian  personnel  whose  family  members  are  receiving  evacuation entitlements  report  the  status  of  those  family  members  via  AFPAAS,  or  to  their supervisor or commander/director and to continue reporting their status until entitlements cease. (T-1) 2.12.7.  Ensure  all  unit  commanders  identify  at  least  two  (2)  AFPAAS  Commanding Officer Representatives (CORs) to provide accountability. (T-1)  CORs receive AFPAAS access  and  annual  training  from  the  Force  Support  Squadron/Installation  Personnel Readiness (FSS/IPR) and will: 2.12.7.1.  When  directed  by  higher  authority,  ensure  the  status  of  all  personnel described in paragraph 1.4.3. are updated in AFPAAS. (T-1) 2.12.7.2.  Continue  efforts  to  achieve  accountability  of  their  personnel  until  100% accountability is achieved. (T-1). Continue to track and report evacuation information until  all  personnel  and  their  families  have  returned  to  their  normal  place  of  duty  or have been reassigned to a new place of duty. (T-1) 2.12.7.3.  Ensure all evacuation orders published by the CSS or UCC are forwarded to the IPR as soon as possible to identify both military and civilian dependents receiving evacuation entitlements. (T-1) 2.12.8.  Ensure  an  up-to-date  unit-recall  roster  is  maintained  and  forwarded  to  the appropriate coordinating agencies (installation Command Post, AFCAT, etc.). (T-1)  Also ensure  an  actionable  Communications-Out  recall  roster  is  maintained.  (T-1)    Since  in many  cases,  local  communications  are  inoperative  or  overloaded,  Communications-Out recall rosters are essential. 2.12.8.1.  Ensure AFPAAS website (https://afpaas.af.mil) are printed on all recall rosters. (T-1) toll-free  number  (1-800-435-9941)  and the  AFPC/PRC the their  accountability 2.12.9.  Ensure  all  assigned  personnel  are responsibilities  to  contact  their  leadership,  keep  them  informed  of  their  location  and account for family members. (T-1) familiar  with 2.12.9.1.  Once a member (or family member if evacuating separately) has arrived at a safe evacuation location, their first act should be to report their status and location via AFPAAS or other means. 12 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 2.12.9.2.  If a member is unable to either update AFPAAS, or contact their UCC they should  immediately  contact  the  AFPC/PRC  at  1-800-435-9941  to  report  their whereabouts. AFPC/ PRC is manned 24/7 to respond to any emergency. 2.12.10.  In  the  event  a  member  is  stranded  in  a  crisis  area  with  no  communications available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red Cross, local police, FEMA, etc.) and ask that agency to report the status of the member to the Air Force through any means available. 2.12.11.  Encourage  all  civilian  employees  to  initiate  or  update  address  and  emergency contact information in MYBIZ located in myPers and ensure their supervisor’s record of employee contains current contact information. 2.12.12.  Ensure commanders at non-impacted bases identify all AF personnel on leave, on  a  pass  (if  known),  or  TDY  in  the  GAOI  and  add  them  to  the  disaster  event  within AFPAAS. (T-1) 2.12.12.1.  Commanders  are  responsible  to  ensure  all  Airmen  who  have  family members  living  in  the  GAOI  (e.g.,  dependent  children  living  with  a  former  spouse) account for those members. 2.12.13.  Designate,  in  writing,  at  least  two  (primary  and  alternate)  unit  members  as trusted agents with COR access to AFPAAS. (T-1)  Larger units/directorates should add an  alternate  COR  for  every  additional  250  assigned  personnel  in  order  to  limit  system access  and  safeguard  personal  information.    Ensure  access  is  removed  when  CORs  are reassigned. 2.12.13.1.  Ensure  designated  CORs  are  trained  on  TFA  procedures,  including AFPAAS, within 1 month of designation. (T-1) 2.12.14.  Ensure accountability of deployed Airmen families is maintained. (T-1) 2.13.  Unit Control Center (UCC) will: 2.13.1.  Ensure  units  not  in  the  impacted  area  may  view  in  AFPAAS  data  showing  unit members  who  have  family  (as  defined  in  paragraph  1.4.)  in  the  GAOI.    UCCs  contact sponsors to account for family member(s) in the GAOI via AFPAAS. 2.13.1.1.  Ensure the unit assists the deployed member in any way possible to contact the family members to verify their safety. Units should ensure members are updating family member information as necessary prior to deployments. 2.13.2.  Add  members  to  the  disaster  event  in  AFPAAS  who  are  on  leave  or  TDY  (to include deployed) into the GAOI. (T-1) 2.13.3.  Account for members on leave or TDY (to include deployed) outside the GAOI by updating AFPAAS accordingly. (T-1) 2.13.4.  Consolidate  any  published  evacuation  orders  for  DAF  and  NAF  civilian dependents  only  and  forward  to  FSS/IPR,  or  as  directed  by  the  Wing  CAT/A1.  (T-1)  There is no requirement to forward copies of evacuation orders of military dependents. 2.13.5.  Continue to report accountability until 100% of their personnel are accounted for. (T-1)    Continue  to  track  and  report  evacuation  information  until  all  personnel  and  their AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 13 families  have  returned  to  their  normal  place  of  duty  or  have  been  reassigned  to  a  new place of duty. (T-1) 2.13.6.  DELETED 2.14.  Force Support Squadron Commanders or Directors (FSS/CCs or FSS/CL) will: 2.14.1.  Serve  as  the  Wing  CAT/A1  representative  and  will  perform  all  the  duties prescribed in paragraph 2.11. of this instruction. (T-1)   In addition to meeting all of the requirements  of  a  unit  commanders,  serves  as  the  primary  advisor  on  all  personnel-related  matters  and  provides  critical  interface  between  their  installation  commander  (or equivalent) and their MAJCOM of assignment. 2.14.2.  Ensure that the IPR, A&FRC, Civilian Personnel Section (CPS) and NAF Human Resources Section (HRS) follows the guidelines as stated in paragraphs 2.15., 2.16., 2.17. and 2.18. below. 2.14.3.  In the event the Wing-level CAT is not activated; the FSS/CC (or equivalent) will assume the responsibilities of the Wing-level CAT/A1 representative listed in paragraph 2.11 of this AFI as required. (T-1) 2.14.4.  Units not within the affected area emphasize the need for  awareness of possible evacuees arriving on base who may need to have individual evacuation orders published. If evacuation orders for DAF or NAF civilian family members are published by any unit outside the affected area, a listing of these names should be forwarded to the MAJCOM CAT/A1 or MAJCOM/A1 Readiness staff if the CAT is not activated. 2.15.  Installation Personnel Readiness Office (IPR)/ Personnel Readiness Functions will: 2.15.1.  During a national crisis or natural disaster in which TFA is initiated the IPR is the focal point of accountability reporting actions on an installation. 2.15.2.  Only grant AFPAAS access to CORs designated in writing by unit commanders or  directors  for  all  supported  units  to  include  Tenant  Units,  GSUs  and  AF  Elements (AFELMs).  (T-1)    Granting  access  to  a  PAS  code  automatically  provides  access  to subordinate PAS codes. 2.15.3.  Provide annual TFA and AFPAAS training to all designated CORs. (T-1) 2.15.4.  Conduct  an  annual  review  to  track  and  monitor  COR  assignments  and  remove access when designated CORs are reassigned. (T-1) 2.15.5.  Monitor  TFA  efforts  and  provide  status  reports  to  leadership  until  100% accountability is attained or reporting is suspended by higher headquarters. (T-1) 2.15.6.  If  unable  to  perform  the  above  functions,  transfer  this  responsibility  IAW MAJCOM/A1 Readiness Office guidance. 2.15.7.  Consolidate  any  published  evacuation  orders  for  DAF  and  NAF  civilian dependents  only  and  forward  to  Wing  CAT/A1.  (T-1)    There  is  no  requirement  to forward copies of evacuation orders of military dependents. 2.16.  Civilian  Personnel  Section  (CPS).  (Appropriated  Fund  Civilian  Employees  -  DAF) will: 14 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 2.16.1.  Assist  the  unit  commander  to  ensure  civilian  employees  are  aware  of  their responsibilities  and  completely  familiar  with  the  three-tiered  approach  for  displaced personnel to contact their leadership and keep them informed of their location. 2.16.2.  Encourage  civilian  employees  to  initiate  or  update  address  and  emergency contact  information  in  MYBIZ  and/or  ensure  their  supervisor’s  record  of  employee contains current contact information. 2.16.3.  Ensure all personnel are aware that they should immediately contact their unit to report  their  status  if  they  are  either  on  leave,  on  scheduled  off-duty  time  (regardless  of location), or TDY during a crisis. 2.16.3.1.  Civilian  personnel  should  provide  a  leave  address  otherwise  commanders cannot be able to determine who may have been in an affected area. 2.16.4.  Ensure  all  civilian  personnel  whose  family  members  are  receiving  evacuation entitlements  to  report  the  status  of  those  family  members  to  their  supervisor  or commander/director.  (T-1)    Ensure  civilian  employees  continue  reporting  their  family member status until entitlements cease. (T-1) 2.17.  Nonappropriated  Fund  Human  Resources  Sections  (NAF/HRS)  (NAF  Employees) will: 2.17.1.  Assist  the  unit  commander  to  ensure  NAF  employees  are  aware  of  their responsibilities  and  completely  familiar  with  the  three-tiered  approach  for  displaced personnel to contact their leadership and keep them informed of their location. 2.17.2.  Encourage NAF  employees to  initiate or  update address  and emergency contact information in MYMONEY and/or ensure their supervisor’s record of employee contains current contact information. 2.17.3.  Ensure all NAF employees are aware that they should immediately contact their unit to report their status if they are seasonal employees, on leave, on scheduled off-duty time (regardless of location), or TDY during a crisis. 2.17.3.1.  NAF  employees  should  provide  a  leave  address  otherwise  commanders cannot be able to determine who may have been in an affected area. 2.17.4.  Ensure  all  NAF  employees  whose  family  members  are  receiving  evacuation entitlements  to  report  the  status  of  those  family  members  to  their  supervisor  or commander/director.  (T-1)    Ensure  civilian  employees  continue  reporting  their  family member status until entitlements cease. (T-1) 2.18.  Individuals (RegAF, SELRES, DAF and NAF Civilians) will: 2.18.1.  Maintain  realistic  and  actionable  shelter-in  place  or  evacuation  plans  in anticipation of national crises or natural disasters. (T-1) 2.18.2.  Be  responsible  for  accounting  for  family  members  (as  defined  in  paragraph 1.4.3.5.)  living  in  the  area  of  concern  (e.g.,  dependent  children  living  with  a  former spouse)  even  though  the  sponsor  may  live  outside  the  impacted  area.  (T-1)    They  will inform their commander who will forward their status to their UCC/servicing MPS who in turn will forward to the member’s parent MAJCOM. (T-1) AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 15 2.18.3.  Use  all  mechanisms  available  to  report  their  evacuation  plans  and  emergency contact information in the event they have to relocate. 2.18.4.  Military  members  will  update  their  Virtual  Record  of  Emergency  Data  (vRED) along with their home and mailing address information under Record Review application in  vMPF.  (T-1)    DAF  civilians  will  update  MYBIZ  and/or  ensure  their  supervisor’s record  of  employee  contains  current  contact  information  (as  applicable).  (T-1)    NAF civilians  will  ensure  their  supervisor’s  record  of  employee  contains  current  emergency point of contact information. (T-1) 2.18.5.  Ensure  they  and  their  family  members  are  familiar  with  the  tiered  approach  for displaced personnel to contact their leadership and keep them informed of their location. 2.18.5.1.  Once  a member/employee/family member has  arrived at  a safe  evacuation location,  their  first  act  should  be  to  report  their  status  and  location  via  AFPAAS  or other means back to their UCC. 2.18.5.2.  If  a  member/employee/family  member  is  unable  to  update  AFPAAS  or contact  their  UCC,  they  should  immediately  contact  the  AFPC/PRC  at  1-800-435-9941  to  report  their  whereabouts.  AFPC/PRC  is  manned  24/7  to  respond  to  any emergency. 2.18.6.  Ensure  if  a  member  is  on  leave,  pass  (military),  scheduled  off-duty  time (civilians),  or  TDY  into  an  affected  area,  the  member  takes  immediate  action  to  report their status via AFPAAS or to their home unit, their TDY unit, and/or AFPC/PRC. 2.18.7.  In  the  event  a  member  is  stranded  in  a  crisis  area  with  no  communications available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red Cross, local police, FEMA, etc.) and ask that agency to report the status of the member to the Air Force through any means available. 2.18.8.  Individuals, except those that are deployed, maintain contact with and know the whereabouts  of  DEERS  enrolled  dependents  residing  in  the  GAOI,  and  then  provide accountability information on those dependents. If family members of civilian employees (DAF or NAF) are receiving evacuation entitlements, employees should provide a listing of those family members to their commander/director or UCC for tracking purposes. 2.18.9.  Members  on  or  going  on  a  remote  assignment  notify  the  nearest  Airman  & Family  Readiness  Flight  to  where  the  family  members  are  residing  so  they  can  be contacted for follow up in case of an emergency or evacuation.  GABRIEL O. CAMARILLO Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 16 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 1342.22, Military Family Readiness, 03 Jul 2012 DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural or Manmade Disasters, 3 May 2010 DoDI O-3020.43, Emergency Management and Incident Command on the Pentagon Facilities, 6 March 2007 AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 06 Nov 2012 AFPD 10-25, Air ForceictectEmergency Management Program, 28 Apr 2014 AFPD 36-38, Personnel Readiness, Reporting and Accountability, 23 May 2011 AFI 10-216, Evacuating and Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other US Noncombatants, 1 Apr 2000 AFI 10-208, Air Force Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 15 Dec 2011 AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24 Jan 2007 AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations, 23 Feb 2009 AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013 AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 21 Jul 1994 AFI 36-3009, Airmen and Family Readiness Centers, 07 May 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 Air Force Records Information Management System Joint Publication 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 17 Mar 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms A&FRC—Airman & Family Readiness Center AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard ARC—Air Reserve Component ARRS—Automated Repatriation Reporting System AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 17 CAT—Crisis Action Team CMs—Case Managers CORs—Commanding Officer Representatives CPS—Civilian Personnel Section CSS—Commander Support Staff CONUS—Continental United States DAF—Department of the Air Force DD Form—Department of Defense Form DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center EFAC—Emergency Family Assistance Center FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency GAOI—Geographic Area of Interest GCC—Group Control Center GSU—Geographically Separated Unit IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness Office MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System MPS—Military Personnel Section NAF—Nonappropriated Fund NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operations NGB—National Guard Bureau NTS—Noncombatant Evacuation Operations Tracking System OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PERSCO—Personnel Support for Contingency Operations PRC—Personnel Readiness Cell RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RegAF—Regular Air Force/Active Duty TDY—Temporary Duty TFA—Total Force Accountability UCC—Unit Control Center v RED—Virtual Record of Emergency Data 18 AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 Accounted  For—Personnel  are  considered  “accounted  for”  when  any  of  the  following occur: 1) The individual is physically present, 2) The individual has been contacted or has made contact (e.g. by telephone or other means) or 3) The individual is in an official status of unauthorized absence (UA), desertion, deceased, or missing—. Concept  of  Operations  (CONOPS)  —(DoD)  A  verbal  or  graphic  statement,  in  broad outline,  of  a  commander’s  assumptions  or  intent  in  regard  to  an  operation  or  series  of operations.  The  concept  of  operations  frequently  is  embodied  in  campaign  plans  and operation plans, in the latter case, particularly when the plans cover a series of connected operations to be carried out simultaneously or in succession. The concept is design to give an  overall  picture  of  the  operation.  It  is  included  primarily  for  additional  clarity  of purpose; it is also called commander’s concept—. Drilling  Unit  Reservists—Unit  members  who  participate  in  unit  training  activities  on  a part-time basis—. DEERS—A  computerized  database  of  military  sponsors,  families  and  others  worldwide who are entitled under the law to TRICARE benefits; required for TRICARE eligibility—. Defense  Manpower  Data  Center  (DMDC)  —Collects  and  maintains  an  archive  of automated  manpower,  personnel,  training,  and  financial  databases;  operates  personnel programs and conducts research and analysis—. Domestic Emergencies—Includes any or all of the emergency conditions defined below: Civil Defense Emergency—A domestic emergency disaster situation resulting from devastation created by an enemy attack and requiring emergency operations during and following that attack. Appropriate authority in anticipation of an attack may proclaim a Civil Defense Emergency. Major Disaster—Any catastrophe (including any tornado, storm, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other catastrophe) or regardless of cause, any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part of the United States, which in the determination of the President  causes  damage  of  sufficient  severity  and  magnitude  to  warrant  major  disaster assistance under the Stafford Act (Chapter 68 of Title 42, United States Code) to supplement the efforts and available resources of States, local  governments, and disaster relief organizations in alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby. National  Emergency—A  condition  declared  by  the  President  or  the  Congress  by  virtue  of powers previously  vested in  them that authorize  certain  emergency  actions to  be undertaken in the national interest. Action to be taken may include partial, full, or total mobilization of national resources. Natural Disaster—All domestic emergencies except those created as a result of enemy attack or civil disturbance. Family  Member—Family  members  who  are  enrolled  in  DEERS  in  an  active  file  status.  For DAF  and  NAF  employees,  family  members  should  be  accounted  for  if  they  are  receiving evacuation entitlements. Noncombatant  Evacuation  Operation  (NEO)  —Operation  directed  by  the  Department  of State,  the  Department  of  Defense,  or  other  appropriate  authority  whereby  noncombatants  are evacuated from areas of danger overseas to safe havens or to the United States. AFI36-3803  7 JUNE 2016 19 Overseas  (OCONUS)  —  (DoD)  All  locations,  including  Alaska  and  Hawaii,  outside  the continental United States. Safe  Haven—(DoD)  Designated  area(s)  to  which  noncombatants  of  the  United  States Government's  responsibility  and  commercial  vehicles  and  materiel  may  be  evacuated  during  a domestic or other valid emergency. Selected  Reserve  (SELRES)  —Those  units  and  individuals  within  the  Ready  Reserve designated by their respective services and approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as so essential to initial wartime missions that they have priority over all other Reserves. All Selected Reservists are  in  active  status.  The  Selected  Reserve  also  includes  persons  performing  initial  RegAF training. STOP—  A  program  implemented  under  the  authority  of  the  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force (CSAF). State Department or Wing Commanders may request STOP MOVEMENT as a result of a natural disaster such as a hurricane, typhoon, political unrest, terrorism etc. It is the temporary suspension  of  a  member’s  Permanent  Change  of  Station  (PCS)  travel  or  cancellation  of  PCS. STOP  MOVEMENT  of  the  military  member  does  not  in  itself  stop  travel  of  family  members. The  requester  must  contact  AFPC/PRC  first,  who  in  turn  will  coordinate  with  AFPC/DPA  to implement STOP MOVEMENTMOVEMENT. Total  Force—For  the  purpose  of  this  instruction,  consists  of  AF  RegAF,  Selected  Reserve, Department  of  the  Air  Force  (DAF)  and  Nonappropriated  Fund  (NAF)  employees,  and  certain family members of AD and SELRES. Total Force Accountability—The ability to accurately account for all Air Force personnel and the related Air Force manpower requirements at all times regardless of their location. Unaccounted  For—An  inclusive  term  (not  a  casualty  status)  applicable  to  personnel  whose person or remains are not recovered or otherwise accounted for.  