 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-117 21 AUGUST 2015 Personnel CIVILIAN HUMAN CAPITAL ASSESSMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY  OPR:   AF/A1C   Certified by: AF/A1  (Mr. Robert E. Corsi, Jr.) Pages: 12   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  36-1,  General  Civilian Personnel  Provisions  and  Authorities.  It  prescribes  procedures  to  follow  for  statutory  and regulatory compliance with  Civilian Human Capital assessment and accountability.   It  explains the responsibilities of commanders, supervisors, AF/A1C, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) to include  Operating  Locations  (OLs),  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs),  Combatant  Commands (COCOMs),  Direct  Reporting  Units  (DRUs),  Field  Operating  Agencies  (FOAs),  and  Civilian Personnel  Sections  (CPSs).  This  instruction  applies  to  Appropriated  Fund  (APF)  civilian employees of the Air Force (AF).  It does not apply to Title 32 Air National Guard Technicians or to Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) civilian employees.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  policy  for  the  Air  Force Civilian  Human  Capital  Assessment  and  Accountability  Plan.  This  publication  may  be supplemented  at  any  level;  all  MAJCOM  level  supplements  must  be  approved  by  the  Human Resource  Management  Strategic  Board  (HSB)  prior  to  certification  and  approval.    All supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to AF/A1C for coordination prior  to  certification  and  approval.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1.  for  a description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval  authority  or  to  the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  Vigilance should be taken to protect Privacy Act (PA) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when transferring documents for review, whether  by  postal  methods,  faxing  or  through  government  internet  systems.    As  a  minimum, review  the  following  references  that  contain  sensitive  or  For  Official  Use  Only  (FOUO) information:    AFI  33-332,  Air  Force  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Program,  12  January  2015,   2  AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015 Chapters 2 and 5; DoDD 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program, October 29, 2014.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of Records,  1  March  2008,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS) located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).  The  use  of  the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication  does  not  imply  endorsement  by  the  Air  Force.    The  Air  Force  will  ensure  that  the Civilian  Human  Capital  Assessment  and  Accountability  Program  is  administered  without unlawful  discrimination  because  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex  (including  pregnancy),  national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, or prior EEO activity.   AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015   3  Chapter 1 PROGRAM OVERVIEW 1.1.  Overview.  The  Air  Force  Human  Capital  Assessment  and  Accountability  Plan  (HCAAP) provides a framework for assigning roles and responsibilities, collecting and analyzing statistical data, reviewing automated case files, collecting and evaluating supporting documents, preparing and submitting reports, and completing regulatory compliance reviews.  In order to standardize human  capital  processes  Air  Force  (AF)-wide,  AFPC  developed  two  operational  Guides:    the Department  of  the  Air  Force  (DAF)  Civilian  Human  Capital  Self-Assessment  Guide  and  the DAF Workforce Planning Guide. 1.2.  Background.  Recognizing  people  are  key  to  the  Federal  government’s  mission  of delivering  services  to  the  American  public,  both  the  President  and  Congress  have  identified strategic human capital  management as  an important  cornerstone initiative to  improve program performance  government-wide.    The  Chief  Human  Capital  Officers  (CHCO)  Act  of  2002 established  a  foundation  for  significant  change  in  the  American  Civil  Service,  and  the  Federal Workforce Flexibility Act of 2004 added more strategies to support this change.  5 United States Code (USC) Section 1402 established the authority and functions of agency CHCOs for civilian workforce management.  As codified in 5 U.S. Code 1103(c) and implemented under subpart B of  Title  5,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (CFR),  Part  250,  the  Human  Capital  Assessment  and Accountability  Framework  (HCAAF)  was the  Office  of  Personnel Management, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Government Accountability Office in  2002.    It  serves  as  a  roadmap  for  human  capital  transformation.    DoD  has  codified  its alignment with federal policy in DoDI 1400.25, Volume 250, “Civilian Strategic Human Capital Planning  (SHCP),”  which  “establishes  policy  and  assigns  responsibilities  for  civilian  strategic human  capital  planning,  as  part  of  total  force  planning,  to  meet  current  and  future  civilian employee requirements” based on the guidance in DoD Directive 5124.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD (P&R)),” June 23, 2008; Section 1122 of Public Law 109-163, “National Defense Authorization Act” for FY 2006, January 6, 2006; Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, “Human Capital Strategy Governance,” June 6, 2006; and Section 300.103 of Title 5, CFR. jointly  by issued   4  AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR) will: 2.1.1.  Have overall program responsibility for civilian Human Capital Management (HCM) within the Department of the Air Force. 2.1.2.  Serve as the agent of the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), providing guidance for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, guidance, programs, and budgets addressing the Air Force HCAAP. 2.1.3.  Provide  Air  Force  HCAAP  reports  to  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD) IAW AFPD 36-1 and Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Missions Directive (MD) 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services which is IAW HAF MD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs. 2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will: 2.2.1.  Ensure compliance with all legislative and OPM HCAAF requirements. 2.2.2.  Be responsible for management, oversight, and administration of civilian HCM. 2.3.  Directorate of Civilian Force Management (AF/A1C) will: 2.3.1.  At  least  annually,  report  HCAAP  results,  to  include  program  effectiveness,  to  the SECAF, SAF/MR, and AF/A1. 2.4.  Civilian  Force  Policy  Division  (AF/A1CP)  and  Civilian  Force  Management  Division (AF/A1CM) will: 2.4.1.  Develop and interpret HCAAP policy and procedures. 2.4.2.  Assess  and  evaluate  civilian  HCM  programs  and  processes  under  this  directive  and AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management. 2.4.3.  Coordinate AF-wide efforts to meet the civilian HCM reporting requirements. 2.4.4.  Direct and ensure compliance with required corrective actions. 2.4.4.1.  Conduct random inspections of installations and/or MAJCOMs. 2.4.4.2.  Communicate trends, best practices, and/or solutions to problems with AF-wide impact. 2.4.5.  Determine  additional  reporting  requirements  and  direct  supporting  data  analysis  and evaluation regarding HCAAP. 2.4.6.  Serve as AF focal point with external organizations for all civilian HCAAP matters. 2.4.7.  Prepare, review, and edit reports as necessary, including review of documentation and communicators  in  the  Inspector  General-managed  Managers’  Internal  Control  Toolset (MICT). 2.4.8.  Oversee AF Delegated Examining Units’ performance. AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015   5  2.4.9.  Oversee development of the civilian portion of the AF Strategic Human Capital Plan. 2.5.  Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), including Operating Locations (OLs), will: 2.5.1.  Provide  operational  guidance  and  assistance  to  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs), Combatant  Commands  (COCOMs),  Direct  Reporting  Units  (DRUs),  and  Field  Operating Agencies (FOAs) on HCAAP. 2.5.2.  Maintain and distribute a Department of the Air Force (DAF) Civilian Human Capital Self-Assessment  Guide  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Self-Assessment  Guide)  and  a  DAF Workforce Planning Guide, updating as necessary. 2.5.3.  As  required,  conduct  AF-wide  employee  HCM-related  surveys,  sharing  full  results with MAJCOMs and recommending actions for improvements.  At a minimum, data should include raw data, any conducted analysis, and reports. 2.5.4.  Oversee  and  compile  information  from  self-assessments,  surveys  and  data  calls directed  by  a  MAJCOM,  COCOM,  DRU,  or  FOA.    AFPC  will  also  disseminate  and  share results with appropriate stakeholders, to include identification of trends, notification of best practices, and recommendation of action based on survey results. 2.5.5.  Conduct internal HCAAP self-assessments, including use of MICT, and report results of self-assessments to A1CP through servicing MAJCOM(s). 2.5.6.  Identify, develop, and oversee HRM training for AF stakeholders. 2.6.  MAJCOMs, COCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs will: 2.6.1.  Ensure  compliance  and  reporting  within  their  respective  staff  offices  and  chains  of commands, meeting AF Inspector General and HCAAP policy and guidance.  Will use MICT for self-assessment and checklist management requirements. (T-1) 2.6.2.  Conduct    self-assessments  of  serviced  population  using  the  Self-Assessment  Guide.  The MAJCOM A1K, COCOM J1, DRU, and FOA will use these assessments to provide an annual HCM report to AF/A1C, using the OPM HCAAF reporting template.  (T-1) 2.6.3.  Respond to requests for information or action from AF chain of command or Defense Civilian  Personnel  Advisory  Services  (DCPAS),  ensuring  staff  offices  and  subordinate activities comply with requirements in a timely manner.  All requests for information will be vetted through AF/A1CP prior to responding. (T-1) 2.6.4.  Utilize HCAAP information to improve civilian HCM within organizational purview. (T-2) 2.7.  Commanders and Directors will: 2.7.1.  Furnish  necessary  assessment  and  accountability  support  to  AF  and  DCPAS representatives. (T-1) 2.7.2.  Provide information within the established timeline to requesting office(s). (T-2) 2.7.3.  Perform  HCAAP  self-assessments  as  required,  but  at  least  annually,  in  accordance with the Self-Assessment Guide.  (T-2) 2.7.4.  Incorporate  HCAAP  results  into  programs  and  processes  to  improve  civilian  HCM.  (T-2)   6  AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015 2.8.  Civilian Personnel  will: 2.8.1.  Provide  assistance  to  serviced  activities  to  develop  civilian  HCAAP  programs  in accordance with IG and HCAAP policy and guidance, consistent with activity size, mission requirements, and command requirements. (T-1) 2.8.2.  Actively  participate  in  self-assessment  activities  in  accordance  with  the  Self-Assessment  Guide,  performing  HCAAP  requirements  for  HCM  services  delivered  and ensuring that the services are efficient, effective, meet technical and legal requirements, and meet the mission requirements of their stakeholders.  (T-2) 2.8.3.  Collect,  analyze,  maintain,  and  report  data  and  metrics  on  key  HCAAP  indicators, using the MICT for self-assessment and checklist management requirements.  (T-3) 2.8.4.  Provide information requested by AF and DCPAS in a timely manner.  (T-3) 2.8.5.  Furnish necessary support to AF and DCPAS representatives to meet their assessment and evaluation requirements, including accurate reports that meet analytical standards. (T-1) 2.8.6.  Use civilian HCAAP results to improve civilian HCM services.  (T-3) AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015   7  Chapter 3 HUMAN CAPITAL ASSESSMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY FRAMEWORK  3.1.  The  HCAAF  systems.  The  HCAAF  is  supported  by  five  human  capital  systems,  known collectively  as  the  Human  Capital  Assessment  and  Accountability  Framework.    The  HCAAF systems include Strategic Alignment, Leadership and Knowledge Management, Results-Oriented Performance Culture, Talent Management, and Accountability. 3.1.1.  The Strategic Alignment (Planning and Goal Setting) System promotes the alignment of  Human  Capital  Management  strategies  with  agency  missions,  goals,  and  objectives through  analysis,  planning,  investment,  measurement,  and  management  of  Human  Capital Programs and is led by senior management.  Strategic human capital plans and programs are implemented  through  the  Leadership  and  Knowledge  Management,  Results-Oriented Performance Culture, and Talent Management systems. 3.1.2.  The Leadership and Knowledge Management System ensures continuity of leadership by  identifying  and  addressing  potential  gaps  in  effective  leadership  and  implementing  and maintaining programs that capture organizational knowledge and promote learning. 3.1.3.  The  Results-Oriented  Performance  Culture  System  promotes  a  diverse,  high-performing workforce by implementing and maintaining effective performance management systems and awards programs. 3.1.4.  The  Talent  Management  System  addresses  competency  gaps,  particularly  in  agency mission critical occupations, by implementing and maintaining programs  to attract, acquire, develop, promote, and retain quality talent. 3.1.5.  The Accountability (Evaluating Results) System contributes to agency performance by monitoring and evaluating results of its Human Capital management policies, programs, and activities;  by  analyzing  compliance  with  merit  system  principles;  and  by  identifying  and monitoring necessary improvements. 3.1.5.1.  Under  the  HCAAF,  accountability  refers  to  leadership  and  line  management support  and  compliance  with  merit  systems  and  equal  employment  opportunity principles,  and  the  efficient,  timely,  and  legal  completion  of  Human  Resource  services, processes, and transactions. 3.1.5.2.  Appropriate,  meaningful  metrics  will  measure  the  success  of  the  Human Resource  services,  processes,  and  transactions  that  are  conducted.    Results,  monitored and evaluated on a regular basis, with changes made as necessary, will inform leadership for management planning and decision making.   8  AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015 3.2.  Human Resource areas HCAAF supports.  The HCAAF systematically supports strategic workforce  planning  to  meet  the  critical  needs  of  aligning  the  AF  human  capital  program  with current and emerging missions.  The system also enables and supports the development of long-term  strategies  for  meeting  AF  Human  Resource  Management  (HRM)  Domain  programmatic goals.    The  HRM  Domain  includes  the  following  areas:    Define,  Acquire,  Develop,  Utilize, Sustain,  Transition,  Compensate,  and  Develop  HR  Strategy  and  Policy.    As  AF  civilian employees move into, among, and out of these domains over the course of their careers, they will be supported by the HCAAF.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY, SES, USAF Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015   9  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 5 CFR Part 250, OPM Human Capital Assessment and Accountability Framework (OPM HCAAF) 5 CFR Section 300.103, Employment Practices. Basic Requirements 5 USC 1401, Chief Human Capital Officers Act (CHCO Act), 2002 5 USC 1402, Authority and Functions of Agency Chief Human Capital Officers Public Law 109-163, Section 1122, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, January 6, 2006 DOD Directive 5124.02, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD  (P&R)  ), January 6, 2006 DOD Directive 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program, October 29, 2014 Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, Human Capital Strategy Governance, June 6, 2006 DoDI 1400.25, Volume 250, Civilian Strategic Human Capital Planning (SHCP), November 18, 2008 HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), 15 December 2008  HAFMD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services, 1 July 2009 AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 23 July 2013 AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, 30 November 1993 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 OPM Human Capital Assessment and Accountability Framework Practitioners’ Guide, Human Capital Management Reference Materials Glossary, September 2005 AF Civilian Human Capital Self-Assessment Guide, April 2015 AF Civilian Workforce Planning Guide, 2015 Prescribed Forms None  Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication   10  AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive CFR—Code of Federal Regulations (US) CHCO—Chief Human Capital Officer COCOM—Combatant Command CPS—Civilian Personnel Section DAF—Department of the Air Force DCPAS—Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive HCAAF—Human Capital Assessment and Accountability Framework HCAAP—Human Capital Assessment and Accountability Plan HCM—Human Capital Management HOI—Headquarters Operating Instruction HRM—Human Resource Management IAW—In Accordance With IG—Inspector General MD—Mission Directive MICT—Managers’ Internal Control Toolset OL—Operating Location OMB—Office of Management and Budget OPM—Office of Personnel Management OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense USC—United States Code AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015   11  Terms  Accountability  System— A system that contributes to agency performance by monitoring and evaluating  the  results  of  its  human  capital  management  policies,  programs,  and  activities;  by analyzing  compliance  with  merit  systems  principles;  and  by  identifying  and  monitoring necessary improvements. Acquire— Successfully bring people into the AF. Agency Strategic Plan— A formal description of how an agency will carry out its mission over a  period  of  time.    The  strategic  plan  must  include  the  agency’s  mission,  its  strategic  goals,  the strategies to be used to achieve the goals (including workforce adjustments, staff skills, budget, and  human  resource  programs),  a  description  of  the  relationship  between  annual  program performance  goals  and  the  agency’s  strategic  framework,  key  factors  that  could  affect achievement  of  strategic  goals,  and  a  description  of  program  evaluations  used  in  preparing  the strategic goal. Chief Human Capital Officers Act of 2002 (CHCO Act)— Title 13 of the Homeland Security Act.  The Act establishes Chief Human Capital Officers (CHCOs) in agencies, the Chief Human Capital  Officers  Council  led  by  the  Director  of  OPM,  strategic  human  capital  management systems,  the  relationship  of  strategic  human  capital  management  to  agency  performance  plans and  reports,  and  human  resources  flexibilities.    It  clarifies  management  accountability  for managing human resources. Civilian  Employee—  A  person  employed  by  the  Air  Force  and  paid  from  appropriated  funds who is a US citizen or an alien admitted for permanent residence. Compensate— Pay and reimburse people in accordance with eligibility. Define— Identify appropriate manpower and structure to accomplish the mission. Develop— Build knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to meet the mission, sustain the force, and prepare for future requirements. Develop HR Strategy and Policy— Manage the AF Human Resources Enterprise. Installation  Commander—  The  individual  responsible  for  all  operations  performed  by  an installation. Mission  Critical  Occupation  (MCO)—  Occupations  agencies  consider  core  to  carrying  out their  missions.    Agency  MCOs  are  a  strategic  program  or  goal  with  an  agency-specific  impact that is at risk of failure related to human Capital.  (OPM definition) Strategic  Human  Capital  Plan—  A  plan  that  sets  forth  how  the  agency’s  human  capital management strategies will be aligned with the agency’s mission, goals, and objectives through analysis, planning, investment, and management of human capital programs.  Broadly stated, the plan  describes  what  the  agency  will  do  to  ensure  its  employees  have  the  mission-critical competencies  required  to  carry  out  the  agency’s  strategic  goals.    This  involves  workforce planning  and  deployment,  including  succession  planning;  recruiting  and  retaining  talent; achieving performance goals; and addressing unique programmatic challenges. Sustain— Provide individuals with what they need to productively stay in Service.   12  AFI36-117  21 AUGUST 2015 Transition—  Facilitate  movement  in,  out,  and  between  positions  within  the  AF,  other employers, and separation or retirement. Utilize— Use of Human Capital/people to accomplish the mission.  