BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-900421 JULY 1994Incorporating Change 1, 03 May 2007Civil EngineeringDISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTYCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.OPR: AFREA/MI Supersedes AFR 87-4, 23 April 1976; AFR 87-6, 12 December 1979; and AFR 87-10, 29 June 1990.Certified by: SAF/MI  (Mr Phillip P. Upschulte)Pages: 16This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management, Department of Defense (DoD)Directive 4165.6, Real Property Acquisition, Management, and Disposal, September 1, 1987 and DoDDirective 5160.63, Delegation of Authority Vested in the Secretary of Defense to Take Certain Real Prop-erty Actions, June 3, 1986.  It guides the disposal of real property that the Air Force doesn't need to sup-port the mission.  It does not cover real property acquired for industrial facilities or property disposed ofunder authority of the Base Closure and Realignment Acts.  It provides procedures to efficiently use realproperty installed equipment (RPIE) on excess installations.  This instruction interfaces with AFI32-7020, Environmental Restoration Program; AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process;AFI 32-7062,  Base Comprehensive Planning; AFI 32-7064, Natural Resources Management; AFI32-7065, Cultural Resources Management; and AFI 32-7066, Environmental Baseline Surveys in RealEstate Transactions. Attachment 1  is a glossary of terms.SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis interim change replaces Chapter 4, DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY OUTSIDE THE UNITEDSTATES, THE COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO, AND TERRITORIAL AREAS ADMINIS-TERED BY THE UNITED STATES in its entirety. It adds content on residual value negotiations at over-seas locations, and updates procedures, office symbols, and references. It also adds the terms, combatantcommander and residual value negotiations, and replaces the outdated SAF/MII office symbol with SAF/IEI in Attachment 1, GLOSSARY OF TERMS. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.2AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994Chapter 1  DISPOSING OF LAND OR LAND INTERESTS WITH OR WITHOUT IMPROVEMENTS1.1.  Declarations of Excess (DE). Base Civil Engineer (BCE) prepares a DE if land or land interests areno longer required to support current or programmed missions.  After the facilities board (FB) approves it,submit the DE through the major command (MAJCOM) to the appropriate approval authority.  Send DEsabove the MAJCOM approval authority through the MAJCOM to the Air Force Real Estate Agency(AFREA/MI).  Attachment 2 gives instructions for completing the DE.1.2.  Approval Authority. These authorities must approve the DE:1.2.1.  Congress.  Under 10 U.S.C. 2662, the Congress approves disposals with an estimated fair-mar-ket value of $200,000 or more.1.2.2.  The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations) (SAF/MII) approves:• All fee-owned land disposals with or without improvements.• Requests for "holds" or "withdrawals" from excess of real property reported to General Ser-vices Administration (GSA).• Leases,  easements,  and  other  interests  in  nonfederal  land  with  a  fair-market  rental  valueexceeding $200,000 per annum.• Leases,  easements,  and  other  interests  in  nonfederal  land  with  government  improvementsexceeding $25,000 in value.1.2.3.  AFREA/MI.  Approves GSA leased space outside the National Capitol Region.1.2.4.  MAJCOM.  Approves the following or delegates to the installation level:• Leases, easements, and other interests in nonfederal land with a fair-market value of $200,000or less.• Leased  property  with  or  without  government  improvements  that  do  not  exceed  a  total  of$25,000 in value.1.2.5.  Installation commanders may dispose of excess real property facilities, but not the underlyingreal estate in whatever manner that best serves the government when the facilities have no estimatedvalue.1.3.  Disposal Commitments. Installation commanders or MAJCOMs must not commit the Air Force totransfers of real property or real property interests outside the government.  Refer queries received fromoutside the government to AFREA/MI.1.4.  Disposing of Timber. MAJCOM must consult the Environmental Resources Division, Air ForceCenter for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE/ESER), Natural Resources Manager before disposing ofland with marketable timber (see AFI 32-7064).  However, planned forest products sales on landsreported as excess may continue until the land is disposed of or transferred.AFI32-9004   21 JULY 199431.4.1.  If, after disposal, forested areas are to become, or likely to become, recreation or public parkareas, do not clear-cut them.  Thinnings, intermediate cuttings, and salvage cuttings within the next 5years are permissible when already scheduled by forest management.1.5.  Family Housing With Land. Installation commanders must send all requests for disposal of familyhousing with underlying fee land through the MAJCOM to AFREA/MI.  Family housing located on landto be declared excess may not be demolished or otherwise disposed of separately from the land. 1.6.  Report of Excess Real Property. Excess facilities and related land and improvements are reportedto GSA on separate SFs 118, Report of Excess Real Property; 118A, Buildings, Structures, Utilities,and Miscellaneous Facilities; 118B, Land (Used only by CONUS, Alaska, and Hawaii); and 118C,Related Personal Property.  Secure and protect all RPIE.  Mark all property removed for storage andreturn it to the unit for disposal by GSA.  Use a DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Doc-ument, to list related personal property.  List Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) or nonap-propriated fund (NAF) personal property on a separate SFs 118C.  (See AFI 34-205, Non-AppropriatedFund Capital and Facility Requirements.)1.6.1.  When the BCE accepts DD Form 1149, establish a file for each building containing the formand its related documents.1.6.2.  Do not remove any related personal property listed on SF 118C from the reported excess realproperty without prior GSA approval.  Approved additions or deletions from the Report of Excess areidentified by submitting a "corrected" SF 118C to GSA.1.7.  Environmental Compliance. The real estate office identifies proposed transactions early to theenvironmental office to ensure timely completion of environmental requirements.  Include the environ-mental compliance documents in the real estate transaction records throughout the real estate transaction.Maintain the completed environmental compliance documents as part of the real estate transactionrecords.  See Attachment 2 for a list of documents required in the DE package. The EnvironmentalOffice accomplishes actions in paragraphs 1.7.1. through 1.7.4. as required.1.7.1.  Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). Prepares the EIAP documentation if anal-ysis is required according to AFI 32-7061.1.7.2.  Cultural Resources. Consultations with the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Advi-sory Council on Historic Preservation are required for historic and prehistoric real property such asarcheological sites.  Refer to AFI 32-7065.1.7.3.  Natural Resources. Consultations with regulatory agencies are required if real propertyincludes wetlands, floodplains, coastal zones, or threatened or endangered species.  Refer to AFI32-7064.  When property located in floodplains or wetlands is proposed for disposal (to nonfederalpublic or private parties; or for lease, easement or right-of-way), reference restrictions identifiedunder federal, state, or local regulations and attach any other appropriate restrictions to the uses of theproperty in the conveyance.1.7.4.  Contamination. The Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS) documents the nature and magni-tude of the environmental contamination of property or interests in property considered for disposal(as well as acquisition, interagency transfer or outgrant).  Make real property records available for thepreparation of the EBS according to AFI 32-7066.  Pursuant to the Community Environmental4AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994Response Facilitation Act (CERFA), P.L. 102-426, October 19, 1992, the appropriate state Environ-mental Protection Agency or its equivalent must concur with the EBS.  Additionally, if the excessproperty is located on an installation contained on the National Priorities List (NPL), the regional fed-eral Environmental Protection Agency office must concur with the EBS findings.1.8.  Withdrawn Public Land. If the Air Force has no further need for withdrawn or reserved publicland, AFREA/MI will obtain SAF/MII approval (see paragraph 1.2.2.) and direct the Corps of Engineersfile a "notice of intention to relinquish" with the state office of the Bureau of Land Management.  Sendinformation copies of executed instruments to the MAJCOM, GSA, and AFREA/MI.  1.9.  Screening Real Property. Once the appropriate authority has determined that the real property isexcess to Air Force requirements, other DoD services and federal agencies must have a chance to acquirethe real property if they can show a valid need.  The MAJCOM prepares a Notice of Availability and cir-culates it to all military activities within a 50-mile radius.1.9.1.  AFREA/MI coordinates DEs with the Bases and Units Division, Deputy Chief of Staff, forPlans and Operations (HQ USAF/XOOB), Departments of the Army and Navy, and defense agenciesto determine if another MAJCOM or DoD element needs the property.1.9.2.  Do not screen leased space assigned by GSA if annual rental is $25,000 or less.  Also, you donot have to provide screening if the government uses, occupies, or controls excess property under alease, permit, easement, or similar legal instrument in which:• The excess property has a remaining lease term of less than 9 months.• The lease precludes transfer to another activity.• The property contains offices or storage space of 2,500 square feet or less.1.9.3.  Screen properties listed in 1.9.1. if government improvements are located on premises.1.9.4.  If no DoD element wants the property, continue disposal as described in paragraph 1.9. How-ever, if another MAJCOM needs the property, transfer it as described in AFI 32-9005, Establishing,Accounting and Reporting Real Property.1.9.5.  If no DoD element needs the property, GSA screens the property with other federal agencies.1.10.  Responsibilities for Disposal After Screening:1.10.1.  Within the limits of authority in paragraph 1.2.4., MAJCOMs will:• Authorize disposal.• Direct the Corps of Engineers to initiate disposal.• Give AFREA/MI an information copy of the disposal directive.1.10.2.  Disposals not within the limits of authority in paragraph 1.2.4., AFREA/MI will:• Obtain SAF/MII approval, if required. ••Submit a disposal report to the Congressional Armed Services Committee.Issue a preliminary real estate disposal directive to the Chief of Engineers.AFI32-9004   21 JULY 199451.11.  Accountability and Care of Excess Real Property. The Air Force must retain accountability andprotect excess property from vandalism and theft until the disposal has been completed at all levels.  6AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994Chapter 2  DISPOSING OF EXCESS OR DETERIORATED BUILDINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS ON NONEXCESS LAND2.1.  Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Responsibilities. BCEs set up building disposal programs as part oftheir long-range plans in installation Base Comprehensive Plans (see AFI 32-7062, Base ComprehensivePlanning).2.2.  Criteria for Disposing of Buildings on Nonexcess Land. Installation commanders must dispose ofany unneeded or deteriorated building on nonexcess land if such buildings meet one or more of the fol-lowing conditions:• Deterioration beyond the point of economical repair.• Building interferes with a site approved for construction.• Dangerous to people, likely to damage adjoining structures, or creates a nuisance.• Requires more than normal maintenance, and its disposal will not create a deficiency.• Design is obsolete and it cannot be reasonably altered or economically used.2.3.  When To Submit AF Form 300, Facility Disposal. The Facilities Board must confirm that build-ings or other improvements on nonexcess land meet the criteria of paragraph 2.2.  After confirmation,installation real property personnel will:• Determine, with the assistance of the environmental office, if facilities contain hazardous or toxicmaterials.• Determine  if  the  facility  is  subject  to  the  reporting  requirements  of  the  Stewart  B.  McKinneyHomeless Assistance Act.Submit AF Form 300 to the appropriate authority for approval.•2.4.  Approval Authority for AF Form 300. MAJCOMs have the authority to approve disposal of allbuildings and other improvements on nonexcess land except as noted in paragraph 2.4.3.  Commandsissue approval through AF Form 300.2.4.1.  A MAJCOM may redelegate any portion of its disposal authority to an intermediate or installa-tion commander, except as noted in paragraph 2.4.3. and buildings destroyed by fire.  An approvedMilitary Construction Program (MILCON) project may authorize disposal of facilities committed tothe Congress by the installation.  2.4.2.  This does not include those identified by the Directorate of Plans and Programs (HQ USAF/CEP) as requiring Secretary of the Air Force approval.  Identify MCP projects on the AF Form 300.  2.4.3.  Regardless of their fair-market value, disposal of the following facilities requires submittal ofAF Forms 300 through the MAJCOM to the appropriate offices for approval:• Chapel facilities: to the Chief of Chaplains (HQ USAF/HC).• Hospital and Medical facilities: to the Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SGSF). AFI32-9004   21 JULY 19947• Munitions storage and handling facilities.  On property exceeding 40,000 SF: to Deputy Chiefof Staff Logistics (HQ USAF/LGMW).• Hazardous  waste  storage,  treatment,  or  disposal  facilities:  to  Directorate  of  EnvironmentalQuality (HQ USAF/CEV).2.5.  Buildings Committed to the Congress. The Air Force commits to dispose of substandard buildingswhen  the Congress approves the construction of replacement facilities.  Such buildings are identified asdisposal commitments after a replacement building is constructed, on DD Form 1391, FY__ MilitaryConstruction Program, or during congressional testimony.  If the Air Force subsequently needs to retaina committed building, the MAJCOM's civil engineer may issue a waiver for retention or substitution ofanother building.  Use AF Form 3217, Commitments to Dispose of Buildings FY __ MCP, to monitorthe disposal of buildings committed to the Congress.2.6.  Disposing of Family Housing Without Land. MAJCOMS must closely monitor the demolition ordisposal of family housing. 2.6.1.  If you have family housing that blocks new construction, submit AF Form 300 to the Chief orDeputy Chief, Directorate of Plans and Programs, Office of the Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/CEP).2.6.2.  Do not demolish family housing unless the underlying land is badly needed or the building hasno salvage value or value for offsite removal.  If you dispose of family housing without the underlyingland, make every effort to sell the buildings.  Credit the proceeds to the family housing account(57X0704).2.6.3.  When requesting approval to dispose of family housing located on the site of new construction,state the approved MCP project title, fiscal year approved, and construction start date.  Try to sellthese units for offsite removal before construction begins, rather than including their demolition innew construction contracts.2.7.  Screening Excess Buildings and Improvements on Nonexcess Land. Do not screen this propertyif removal from the land is physically impractical or if it warrants salvage in place.  If removal is practicaland the value of the improvements is $25,000 or less, MAJCOMS screen property with other DoD ele-ments within a 50-mile radius.  This does not include facilities listed in paragraph 2.4.3.2.7.1.  AFREA/MI ascertains whether other DoD element needs the excess buildings which arebeyond the MAJCOM's approval authority.2.8.  Donation of Buildings and Improvements on Nonexcess Land. When  excess  buildings  andimprovements on nonexcess land has no commercial value, they can be donated to any agency of the Fed-eral Government or to a "public body."  Prior to donation, ensure that there is no reasonable prospect ofselling them.2.8.1.  Buildings and improvements on nonexcess land may not be donated to any private person orphilanthropic, nonprofit, or patriotic organization such as a church, Boy Scout group, or the AmericanLegion.  See 10 U.S.C. 483(h).2.9.  Transferring Excess Buildings or Improvements on Nonexcess Land. Use  DD  Form  1354,Transfer and Acceptance of Military Real Property, to document the transfer of real property within8AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994the Air Force or other DoD components.  When transferring real property between military departmentsexceed MAJCOM authority, AFREA/MI asks the Chief of Engineers to do the transfer.  See AFI 32-9001,Acquisition of Real Property, for details.2.10.  Disposing of Property by Sale or Salvage. The BCE determines facility values.  The estimatedvalue may be reduced by the cost required to restore the land.2.10.1.  Upon receiving MAJCOM approval, when an excess facility has an estimated value notexceeding $25,000, the BCE submits AF Form 300 to the DE requesting disposal by sale.  Excessfacilities having an estimated value exceeding $25,000 are forwarded to AFRA/MI for approval.2.10.2.  After you send AF Form 300 to the DE, do not remove any installed equipment from the facil-ity.2.10.3.  If the site requires extensive restoration, such as removal of slabs, piers, reseeding, or level-ing, the BCE may have this work done in-house or by contract.  This need not be part of the dis-posal-by-sale contract.2.10.4.  If the disposal is not completed within 6 months after MAJCOM approves AF Form 300, theBCE must report the delay to the MAJCOM and give the new scheduled disposal date.2.11.  Disposing of Improvements in the Way of New Construction. If the improvements have a valueof less than $25,000, the MAJCOM may approve the disposal.2.11.1.  If the improvements are valued at over $25,000, the MAJCOM sends AF Form 300 toAFREA/MI.2.11.2.  If the improvements are on a site being acquired for military construction, disposal will occurwhen the property is acquired.2.12.  Abandoning In-Place Facilities on Nonexcess Land. Normally, buildings and above-groundstructures are not abandoned "in place."  However, facilities such as underground utility lines, fuel tanks,roads, sidewalks, and vehicle parking areas, can be abandoned in place under these conditions:• The facility will be rendered unusable by new construction.• Cost of removal would exceed the salvage value.• The facility has deteriorated and cannot be repaired or rehabilitated.•It  does  not  pose  or  create  a  hazard  to  health  or  safety  and  cannot  be  removed  at  reasonableexpense.It is located under or in such close proximity to existing structures that damage to the structurecould occur.•2.12.1.  In compliance with existing state and local environmental laws, the Air Force surveys facili-ties abandoned in place to make sure no health or safety hazards exist.  Flush, clean, and seal under-ground tanks to prevent accidental use.  Underground tanks to be abandoned in place must be filledwith a solid inert material (see AFI 32-7044).  Cap water wells abandoned in place to prevent contam-ination or accident.  Mark the location and description of all of facilities abandoned in place on theBase Comprehensive Plan (see AFI 32-7062).AFI32-9004   21 JULY 199492.13.  Disposing of Buildings Containing Asbestos. Before planning for the disposal of a building, theinstallation commander, bioenvironmental engineering personnel, and BCE must work together to:Start decontamination, if necessary.• Conduct an asbestos survey and prepare a report of findings for each building.• Certify in writing that the building contains or does not contain asbestos. •• Consult the bioenvironmental engineer before completing an Invitation for Bids (IFB).2.13.1.  The bioenvironmental engineer, must advise the building manager and the installation realproperty officer when asbestos is determined present in the building.  2.13.2.  In soliciting bids, include all applicable safety and health clauses.10AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994Chapter 3  REMOVING AND REUSING RPIE3.1.  Removing and Reusing RPIE. To ensure efficient use of real property installed equipment atexcess facilities, the base commander makes the equipment available for possible reuse at other Air Forceinstallations.  Items must satisfy an OSD-approved budget-year requirement and be "need to buy" itemsor each item must satisfy a requirement for a project in the future year defense program.  The RPIE is thenremoved or held in storage for approved projects.  3.1.1.  HQ USAF/CE asks the Air Force Civil Engineering Support Agency (AFCESA) to inventory,evaluate, and screen selected items of installed equipment for removal and reuse.  After AFCESAinventories the items:• BCE completes AF Form 539, Installed Equipment Inventory Worksheet.• AFCESA reviews AF Form 539 to evaluate items.• AFCESA lists available items for reuse on AF Form 540, Real Property Installed Equip-ment Availability List, and sends it to all MAJCOMs installations within a 500-mile radius.• MAJCOMS review AF Form 540 and respond within 60 days.3.2.  Approval Procedure. AFCESA consolidates the requirements and sends AF Form 540 to AFREA/MI for approval.  After approval, AFREA/MI sends a copy of AF Form 540 to AFCESA and to the MAJ-COM responsible for the RPIE.3.2.1.  The MAJCOM asks the installation to place items "on hold" to make sure they are salvagedwhen the facility is reported to the GSA as excess.3.2.2.  AFCESA/DMC helps the MAJCOM remove, overhaul, pack, ship and coordinate the transferof accountability for items on "hold" for other MAJCOMs.  The gaining MAJCOM uses DD Form1149 to document acceptance of RPIE items and to account for them on the base real property records.3.2.3.  HQ AFESC/DEC screens all equipment not specifically earmarked for a known project forpossible inclusion in the excess RPIE "hold" program.3.2.4.  After HQ USAF/CE approval and with the assistance of MAJCOM or NGB, AFCEE arrangesto remove, overhaul, pack, crate, and ship items that fill requirements annotated on the AF Form 540.3.3.  Storage of "Hold" Items. HQ AFCESA/DMC ships "hold" items listed on the approved AF Form540 to a preselected depot or storage point.3.3.1.  AFCESA/DMC inspects "hold" items and keeps them in storage.  Designated "hold" items thatstay in place remain on the base real property records.  HQ AFCESA/DMC oversees items stored atCivil Engineering Maintenance and Inspection Repair Team (CEMIRT) locations.  If a "hold" item isstored at the installation that needs it, the BCE shows accountability on the Custody Receipt Listing.3.4.  Cost of Removing, Overhauling, and Shipping Equipment. HQ AFCESA/DMC charges the costof removing, overhauling, and shipping equipment to funds allocated to the project for which the item isused.  Ship the items directly to the requestor.  HQ AFCESA/DMC funds the cost of removing and ship-ping items placed in a depot or held in storage.  Later shipments are funded as outlined in AFI 65-601,volume 1, US Air Force Budget Policies and Procedures.AFI32-9004   21 JULY 199411Chapter 4  DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, THE COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO, AND TERRITORIAL AREAS ADMINISTERED BY THE UNITED STATES4.1.  DoD Policy on Foreign Real Property. All disposals of foreign excess real property must complywith DoDI 4165.69, Realignment of DoD Sites Overseas, and AFI 10-504, Overseas Basing Realign-ments. 4.2.  DELETED  4.3.  Property Subject to International Agreement. If an international agreement affects the disposal,the MAJCOM representative shall coordinate with the appropriate U.S. State Department officials andSAF/IA. 4.4.  DELETED  4.5.  Residual Value Negotiations. Air Force officials will comply with DoDI 4165.69, Realignment ofDoD Sites Overseas, and ensure that the negotiations are conducted in a timely manner. 4.6.  Documenting real property disposal overseas. For excess real property outside the United States,Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and Territorial Areas Administered by the United States, the MAJCOMwill submit to AFRPA a Declaration of Excess (DE) including: 4.6.1.  Recommendations of the Army and/or Navy and combatant commander. Document their rec-ommendations on the DE or AF Form 300. Once documented, proceed with DE as noted in this AFI. 4.6.2.  Recommendations of the combatant commander if the value is more than 5% of the overallinstallation in land area or infrastructure value. 4.6.3.  A copy of each legal instrument that affects relinquishment of leasehold or other interest. 4.6.4.  Housing will be disposed of IAW AFI 32-6001. RODNEY A. COLEMANThe Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower,Reserve Affairs, Installations and Environment12AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF TERMS Terms Acquired Land—Land obtained from any private or public source. Land withdrawn from the publicdomain is not considered acquired land. Combatant Commander—A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant commandsestablished by the President. Contaminated Real Property—Property contaminated by live ordnance, chemical or biological warfareagents, radioactive material, or other hazardous substances. Declaration of Excess (DE)—A narrative description of real property that the Air Force no longer needsfor current or programmed missions. Disposal—For purposes of this instruction, any authorized method of permanently relinquishing AirForce control of, responsibility for, or any real property interest in, a piece of real property. District Engineer—A member of the US Army Corps of Engineers, who, under AFI 32-9006, Army andAir Force Basic Real Estate Agreements (Joint), normally acts as the Air Force real estate agent for anassigned geographic area (for example, Baltimore District Engineer). Estimated Current Value—The estimated current fair-market value of buildings or improvements isestablished by the base civil engineer (BCE); the estimate is not established by a formal appraisal. TheBCE adjusts this value to allow for the cost of site restoration. Excess Real Property—Air Force real property that has been screened within the Air Force and withother military departments and defense agencies and that is excess to Department of Defenserequirements. Historic Real Property—Real property having significant characteristics relating to American history,architecture, archeology, engineering, or culture that, under 16 U.S.C. 470 et seq., make it eligible forlisting in the National Register of Historic Places. Industrial Facility—Any Air Force-owned, -leased, or -controlled real property facility that a contractoruses to fulfill government research, development, test, evaluation, production, maintenance, ormodification contracts, or to store production machinery and equipment in support of such activity. International Agreement Property—Real property held under the terms of an agreement between theUnited States and another country. Public Body—Any state, territory, or possession of the United States; also, any political subdivision,agency, or instrumentality of these (including the District of Columbia). Public Lands—Any land and interest in land owned by the United States within its boundaries andadministered by the Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Land Management regardless of howthe United States acquired ownership. The term does not include: • Lands located on the Outer Continental Shelf. • Lands held for the benefit of Indians, Aleuts, and Eskimos (43 U.S.C. 1702 [e]). (See "WithdrawnLand.") AFI32-9004   21 JULY 199413Real Property—Lands, buildings, structures, utilities systems, improvements, and appurtenancesthereto. Includes real property installed equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures(such as heating systems) but not movable equipment (such as plant equipment). Residual Value—The negotiated monetary or non-monetary compensation DoD receives from hostnations for DoD-funded facilities or other capital improvements returned to the host nation under arealignment action. The applicability or terms of residual value will vary depending on the host nation,affected by such factors as the applicable international agreement, and the extent of environmental effectsand reuse potential of the property. SAF/IEI—The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations). Screening—Circulating a notice of availability of real property to determine whether another federalagency needs it. Site Restoration—Returning the land to a usable condition. This includes removing unnecessarysidewalks, withdrawing surface foundations, filling excavations, mitigating hazardous substancecontamination, and reseeding or resodding the affected ground area. Surplus Real Property—Real property that GSA has screened through all federal agencies, andofficially been determined not needed by the Federal Government. Transfer—As used in this instruction, a real estate action that transfers the custody and control of realproperty and its related personal property from one Air Force activity to another, or to another militarydepartment or federal agency. Wetlands—Areas that are inundated by surface or ground water often enough to support, and undernormal circumstances do or would support, a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requiressaturated or seasonally saturated soil for growth and reproduction. Wetlands generally include swamps,marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as sloughs, potholes, wet meadows, river overflows, mud flats, andnatural ponds. Withdrawn Land—Public land that has been set aside or designated for a specific public purpose, such,as a national park, wildlife refuge, or national defense use. Withdrawal of public lands generallysegregates them from lease, sale, settlement, or other dispositions under the public land laws. 14AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994Attachment 2  FORMAT FOR DECLARATION OF EXCESS (DE) REAL PROPERTY (LAND, LAND INTERESTS, AND LEASEHOLDS)A2.1.  Declaration of Excess Form (DE). At the request of the of the real estate function, the installationenvironmental office provides required information.  Upon receiving the DE, the MAJCOM, environmen-tal office will review and approve information and documents prior to the MAJCOM real estate functionforwarding the package to AFREA/MI.  The DE package must include the following environmental infor-mation and documents:A2.1.1.  Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) Documents.  If this analysis is required,include the Categorical Exclusion, Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impactor Environmental Impact Statement and the Record of Decision in the DE package.A2.1.2.  Consultations.  If consultations with regulatory agencies, such as the Environmental Protec-tion Agency, are required, ensure copies of associated correspondence are included in the DE pack-age.A2.1.3.  Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS).  This document or a statement of waiver is requiredfor all transactions.  The appropriate state Environmental Protection Agency, or its equivalent, corre-spondence concurring with the EBS findings must be included in the DE.  Additionally, if the propertyis contained on the National Priority List, correspondence from the Regional Federal EnvironmentalProtection Agency concurring with the EBS findings must be included in the DE.A2.1.4.  The DE must include these certificates:• Notice of Contamination or Finding of No Contamination.•• Asbestos Clearance.PCB Clearance.A2.1.5.  A base map showing locations of all underground storage tanks, a description of what hasbeen done to keep underground tanks from leaking, and a statement outlining any restrictions on theirfuture use.A2.2.  Reason for Declaring Excess. Explain why the property was determined to be excess to currentand programmed mission requirements (for example, installation survey, Executive Order 12512 Survey,or change in mission).  Include a statement that the installation does not plan to acquire any property at ornear this location in the foreseeable future.A2.3.  Location and Identification of Land and Improvements. Provide  a  map,  and  a  propertydescription if available indicating the land area and a list of buildings and other facilities that are recom-mended for excess.  Identify any wetlands and flood plains on the map.A2.4.  Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act. Explain what efforts you have made to screenthe property for use by the homeless and whether a homeless assistance provider has expressed interest inthe property.AFI32-9004   21 JULY 199415A2.5.  Present Use. Describe how the property was historically or most recently or is currently beingused.A2.6.  Screening. Describe how the installation screened other defense services and agencies and statewhether anyone wanted the property.A2.7.  Outgrants. Attach a list of all outleases, easements, permits, and similar legal agreements.  Thislist should include the document number, beginning and ending date of agreement, and general descrip-tion of property.  If available, attach a copy of the initial outgrant document and any supplemental agree-ments.A2.8.  Recommended Disposal Date. Give the date that the property is no longer required and identifyany known obstacles to disposal.A2.9.  Caretaker Costs. Describe what security and maintenance the property needs and how much itwould cost.A2.10.  Restoration. Describe what needs to be restored and how much it would cost.  Tell whetherMAJCOM or installation funds are available for this purpose.A2.11.  Brief History. Indicate when the installation was first activated.  Describe how it was acquiredand any subsequent significant events.A2.12.  Future Use. Identify any interest that the Air Force plans to retain (for example, clearance, road,avigation easement).  Say whether there has been any local interest in the future use of the property.A2.13.  Minerals. List any known minerals that are located within the excess area.A2.14.  Historic, Archaeological, Wetlands and Endangered Species. Include historic, archaeological,wetlands, and endangered species information in the Environmental Assessment (see paragraph A2.1.1.).A2.15.  AF Form 1192, USAF Installation Characteristics Report. If an entire installation is beingrecommended for excess, submit an original and two copies of this report showing the installation as"excess."A2.16.  Hazardous Ordnance Contaminated Land. Land recommended for disposal that has poten-tially hazardous ordnance contamination (primarily Air Force ranges) also requires:A2.16.1.  Decontamination in accordance with AFI 32-3002.A2.16.2.  A certificate of clearance must be prepared in accordance with AFI 32-3002 and approvedby the Department of Defense Explosive Safety Board (DDESB).  Send the certificate with the Reportof Excess (SF 118) to the General Services Administration.A2.17.  Real Property and Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) of the Army and Air ForceExchange Service (AAFES) and Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Facilities.  Identify all real propertyand RPIE of the AAFES and NAF activities.  State whether the owner wants to remove or receive appro-16AFI32-9004   21 JULY 1994priate compensation for their owned property at fair-market value from the receiving agency or individ-ual.  Sell these items either by direct negotiation between AAFES or NAF and the receiver, or underspecial sales conditions and values that the owner includes in the Declaration of Excess.NOTE: This reporting requirement is exempt from licensing according to AFI 37-124, The InformationCollections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air ForceInformation Collections.