 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-397 9 JANUARY 2014 Incorporating Change 1, 5 February 2015 Certified Current, 5 February 2015 Communications and Information OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF POSTAL EXPLOSIVE TRACE DETECTION SYSTEMS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   SAF/A6CB   Certified by: SAF/A6CB  (Mr Kenneth R Neuhaus) Pages: 15   This instruction implements AFPD 33-3, Information Management. It sets forth the policies and procedures for using explosive trace detection technology to enhance the security and safety of the  Air  Force  mail  system.    It  explains  the  purpose  for  employing  mail-screening  technology within  the  Air  Force  and  addresses  the  procedures  and  responsibilities  for  operating  the equipment.  This  instruction  applies  to  all  Air  Force  military,  civilian  and  contractor  personnel who  supervise  or  work  at  an  Air  Force  “Mail  Entry  Point”  (i.e.;  Air  Force  Post  Office  (APO), Aerial Mail Terminal (AMT), Mail Control Activity (MCA), Official Mail Center (OMC), Postal Service Center (PSC), and other postal or official mail activities). This instruction also applies to the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but any  supplements  that  directly  implement  this  publication  need  to  be  routed  to  SAF/CIO  A6 Policy Branch for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Directives and other supporting material used in this Instruction are derived from: 39 CFR, Part 233, Postal Service, Inspection Service Authority; United States Postal Service (USPS) Pub 166, Guide  to  Mail  Center  Security;  USPS  Domestic  Mail  Manual;  DoD  4525.6-M,  Department  of Defense  Postal  Manual;  DoD  4525.8-M,  DoD  Official  Mail  Manual;  DoDI  2000.16,  DoD Antiterrorism  Standards;  DoDD  2000.12,  DoD  Antiterrorism  (AT)  Program;  AFI  10-245,  Air Force  Antiterrorism  (AT)  Standards.      See  Attachment  1  for  a  glossary  of  references  and   2  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 supporting information.  Other publication websites: DoD: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/ USPS: http://about.usps.com/forms-publications. Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).  Refer  recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR) using  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  interim  change  revises  AFI  33-397  by  (1)  adding  tiering,  IAW  AFIS  and  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  and  (2)  updating  signatures,  publication  dates,  office symbols  and  email  addresses  to  reflect  current  organizations,  (3)  incorporates  AFGM  33-397, specifically:  allows  turn-in  of  IONSCAN  systems  that  were  formerly  under  the  SAF/CIO  A6 centrally managed warranty by removing the prohibitive language and directs readers to the AF Postal SharePoint for a "by serial number" listing and turn-in guidance. 1.  Overview: 1.1.  In  conjunction  with  homeland  security,  Air  Force  initiated  the  purchase  of  explosive trace  detection  scanners  to  provide  defense  in  depth  (layered  security)  for  all  overseas locations and key CONUS locations. These scanners are state-of-the-art technology; they are ideal for screening mail for explosives and gunpowder. They are also instrumental in locating chemical  and  radioactive  “dirty”  bombs,  since  those  devices  also  contain  an  explosive component  for  them  to  be  effective.  The  current  inventory  includes  the  IONSCAN  system. However, similar systems may be added to the inventory in the future. 1.2.  Although  there  is  no  specific  threat  of  terrorist  mail  attacks  at  Air  Force  installations, there is still a need to establish procedures and solutions that installations need to implement as  Force  Protection  Conditions  (FPCON)  elevate,  or  in  the  event  of  a  specific  threat.  The purpose  of  a  mail-screening  program  is  to  safeguard  personnel,  property,  and  resources during  day-to-day  postal  operations,  deter  terrorist  threats,  enhance  security,  and  assign responsibilities. 1.3.  Implementing protective measures should enhance the antiterrorism (AT) posture of the installation, but has inherent limitations. Screening can be accomplished for a percentage of mail (paragraph 2.1.10.), but screening 100 percent of all daily mail may not be feasible for extended periods without personnel augmentation. The use of the IONSCAN is designed to supplement  visual  screening  procedures,  not  replace  them.  Assigned  personnel  need  to understand they are the first line of defense against terrorists and their acts. Employees need to remain vigilant when it comes to personal security and the security of the work place. AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   3  1.4.  The IONSCAN system consists of four main equipment items, all are important to the systems continued performance: IONSCAN, printer (label-type), sampling wand, and heavy-duty aluminum shipping case. NOTE: The shipping case is important for protecting the scanner when depot-level maintenance is needed. However, long periods between usages can lead to its misplacement. Take steps to ensure shipping case remains in proximity to the scanner and identified for this sole purpose. 2.  Responsibilities: 2.1.  Senior government representative (or postal contractor), assigned to each Air Force mail entry point or other major mail processing facility will: 2.1.1.  Ensure  individuals  who  operate  IONSCAN  equipment  receive  and  successfully complete appropriate training before operating the equipment. Ensure training records for military, government civilian, and contractor employees are properly documented. (T-3). 2.1.2.  Conduct annual refresher training to ensure all personnel are current in procedures and actions required in the event of positive readings. 2.1.3.  Ensure  Explosive  Ordnance  Disposal  (EOD)  and  other  first  responder  personnel are aware of the scanner’s location and familiar with its operation. 2.1.4.  Ensure  operators  understand  the  procedures  for  handling  mail  determined  to  be suspicious or hazardous and implement suspicious mail procedures (See Attachment 2 for suspicious-mail procedures). 2.1.5.  Develop  screening  standards  to  minimize  the  potential  of  mail  entry  points becoming  the  “soft  spot”  in  installation  defense.  (T-2).    Ensure  mail  is  screened according to priority, on a daily basis, and as soon as possible upon arrival. If suspicious mail is found, the operator immediately notifies the senior person on-duty, who notifies appropriate officials. (See Attachment 2 for suspicious-mail procedures.) 2.1.6.  Ensure  equipment  is  used  in  accordance  with  manufacturer’s  guidelines,  and required maintenance procedures are followed. (T-3). 2.1.7.  Monitor consumable parts and supply replacement program. (T-3). NOTE: Installations have to fund the purchase of consumable supplies. Budget approximately $1000 annually per IONSCAN. Supply sources are listed on Air Force Postal SharePoint located at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-SC-PO-ST/. 2.1.8.  Register  each  IONSCAN  with  the  Installation  Radiation  Safety  Officer  (IRSO) and Bioenvironmental Engineer. (T-2). 2.1.9.  Screen  100%  of  suspicious  mail,  mail  received  from  foreign  country  postal systems,  and  mail  destined  for  billets  or  personnel  identified  as  “high-risk”.  See suspicious-mail procedures in Attachment 2. (T-1). NOTE: Installations have to increase percentages to address specific threats. 2.1.10.  Consult with local security forces unit and, using the local design basis threat and completed integrated defense risk management process, determine most effective use of the explosive detector systems. However, as a minimum conduct random daily scanning based on the current FPCON:   4  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 (NOTE: Installations will increase percentages to address specific threats.) 2.1.10.1.  FPCON Normal, randomly scan 10 percent of incoming mail. 2.1.10.2.  FPCON Alpha, randomly scan 20 percent of incoming mail. 2.1.10.3.  FPCON  Bravo,  randomly  scan  30  percent  of  incoming  mail,  begin  target scanning for high-risk billets and personnel at 100 percent. 2.1.10.4.  FPCON Charlie, randomly scan 50 percent of incoming mail, and continue target scanning for high-risk billets and personnel at 100 percent. 2.1.10.5.  FPCON Delta, scan 100 percent of incoming mail. 2.1.11.  Immediately contact warranty contractor’s helpdesk to resolve system errors. 2.1.11.1.  Authorized Shipping Modes. CONUS locations use FedEx or UPS Ground shipping with mandatory signature and tracking.  OCONUS locations use Registered Mail, Diplomatic Pouch, or “bird watch” shipments to ensure positive control of the IONSCAN.    Express  Mail  is  also  authorized  but  needs  to  be  used  sparingly  due  to expense. 2.1.11.2.  Ensure  device  is  protected  from  damage  during  shipment  by  utilizing appropriate shipping container. 2.1.12.  Required  logbook  entries  are  daily  startup  and  maintenance  procedures (attachment 3) and completion of the weekly maintenance procedures (attachment 4), and any supplies ordered. 2.1.13.  The  IONSCAN  contains  a  radioactive  material  (RAM)  (Ni-63)  within  a sealed  component,  never  open  or  remove  the  sealed  component  containing  the RAM. 2.1.14.  Coordinate  with  the  Bioenvironmental  Engineer  to  perform  leak  tests  of  the IONSCAN every 6 months. (T-2). Test results need to be documented and maintained for three years in accordance with Records Disposition Schedule. 2.1.15.  Ensure the IONSCAN is placed on the unit’s equipment account (CA/CRL) in a timely manner. Use ASC Code 006E000 and stock number 6665P6811066 to account for the machines. 2.1.16.  Ensure  the  IONSCAN  is  not  transferred  to  or  from  another  party  without permission  of  the  Bioenvironmental  Engineer  (or  IRSO)  and  the  MAJCOM  OMM. Ensure  the  IONSCAN  is  issued  as  a  “generally  licensed  device”  IAW  AFI  40-20, Managing Radioactive Materials in the U.S. Air Force. 2.1.17.  Ensure  written  approval  is  received  from  the  Bioenvironmental  Engineer  or IRSO,  and  all  procedures  are  strictly  adhered  to  before  initiating  any  steps  to  acquire additional IONSCAN machines. 2.1.18.  Contact  the  Bioenvironmental  Engineer  within  2  hours  of  receipt  of  an IONSCAN.  (T-2).  Place  the  unopened  package  in  a  secure  storage  location  while awaiting further directions from the Bioenvironmental Engineer. AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   5  2.1.19.  Do not move the IONSCAN from its appointed location at the mail entry point, unless approved by the MAJCOM OMM. 2.1.20.  Ensure personnel understand the private nature of personal mail and information concerning  personal  mail  may  not  be  divulged  outside  of  postal  channels  except  for safety purposes (DoD 4525.6-M, Chapter 10). 2.1.21.  For  mail  entry  points  that  are  “outsourced”  or  utilizing  contract  employees,  the contract's work statement requires compliance with these policies and procedures and any subsequent changes thereto. The contract's quality assurance surveillance plan is designed to make sure the contractor complies with this instruction. 3.  Training: 3.1.  Formal  training  addresses  two  aspects—attaining  the  skills  required  to  operate  the IONSCAN and maintaining currency in those skills. 3.2.  The senior government official or postal contractor assigned to the mail entry point will: 3.2.1.  Oversee all clerk training. 3.2.2.  Provide  basic  troubleshooting  instructions  through  demonstrations  and  simulated equipment errors. (T-3). 3.2.3.  Provide annual refresher training. (T-3). 3.2.4.  Document  training  for  military  and  civilian  employees  appropriate  Career  Field Education  and  Training  Plan  (CFETP)  or  AFJQS.    Document  contractor  training  as appropriate. (T-3). 3.3.  All training materials are available on the Air Force Postal SharePoint. 4.  Leak Testing: 4.1.  The IONSCAN needs to be leak tested every 6 months to ensure the continued integrity of the source and to verify no RAM has leaked. In addition, if the unit is physically damaged, it needs to be leak tested (and those results known) before it is returned to service.  The base Bioenvironmental Engineer will perform this activity. (T-3). 4.2.  Test results need to be documented and maintained for three years per the RDS. 5.  Repair and Technical Support. 5.1.  Repairs are accomplished by contracted warranty support. 5.2.  Coordinate with the warranty contractor via their 24/7 helpdesk phone number. Contact and  shipping  requirements  information  is  maintained  current  on  the  Air  Force  Postal SharePoint. 5.3.  Warranty  contractor  helpdesk  personnel  assist  with  system  diagnostic,  send  operator installable  replacement  parts,  or  provide  return  authorization  number  if  depot-level  repairs are required. 5.4.  Notify the Bioenvironmental Engineering and your MAJCOM OMM whenever an IONSCAN is inoperative or removed from service. 5.5.  Deleted.   6  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 6.  IONSCAN  Turn-in.  Air  Force  Mail  Entry  Points  may  turn-in  their  Explosive  Trace Detection Systems with the concurrence of their unit leadership. 6.1.  Turn-in  authority  only  extends  to  machines  formerly  under  SAF/CIO  A6  centrally managed  maintenance  contract.    A  serial  number  listing  is  posted  on  the  Air  Force  Postal SharePoint:  https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-SC-PO-ST.    (ANG)  A  serial  number  listing  for the at https://eis.ang.af.mil/func/CI/kom/Lists/ANG_IONSCAN_Inventory/AllItems.aspx. located ANG is 6.2.  Air  Force  Radioactive  Recycling  and  Disposal  (AFRRAD)  step-by-step  turn-in instructions are also located Air Force Postal SharePoint.  WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lt Gen, USAF Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   7  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 39 CFR, Part 233, Postal Service, Inspection Service Authority United States Postal Service Domestic Mail Manual DoD 2000.12-H, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Program, 1 March 2012 DoD 4525.6-M, Department of Defense Postal Manual, 15 August 2002 DoD 4525.8-M_ AFMAN 33-306, DoD Official Mail Manual, 29 January 2007 DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards, 2 October 2006 DoDI 4525.08_AFI 33-365, DoD Official Mail Program, 2 January 2013 AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 21 September 2012 AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012 AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the U.S. Air Force, 17 September 2014 AFPD 33-1, Information Management, 9 August 2012 Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) Prescribed Forms N/A. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFJQS—Air Force Job Qualification Standard AFRRAD—Air Force Radioactive Recycling and Disposal AMT—Aerial Mail Terminal AT—Antiterrorism APO—Air Force Post Office FP—Force Protection FPCON—Force Protection Condition IMS—Ion Mobility Spectrometry ISRO—Installation Radiation Safety Officer MCA—Mail Control Activity OMC—Official Mail Center OMM—Official Mail Manager   8  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 PSC—Postal Service Center RAM—Radioactive Material  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   9  Attachment 2 SUSPICIOUS-MAIL PROCEDURES A2.1.  Characteristics of Suspicious Mail.  Does the letter or package have one or more of the following characteristics? A2.1.1.  Restricted endorsements such as “personal” or “private". A2.1.2.  Misspelled addressee name/title, or addressed to a position title or organization. A2.1.3.  Distorted handwriting or a name and address prepared via homemade labels or cut-and-paste lettering. A2.1.4.  Visible protruding wires, aluminum foil, oil stains, discolorations, or strange odor. A2.1.5.  A large number of postage stamps or excessive postage. A2.1.6.  A rigid feeling or an uneven or lopsided appearance. A2.1.7.  Excessive or unprofessionally wrapped with several combinations of tape. A2.1.8.  Endorsed “Fragile—Handle With Care” or “Rush—Do Not Delay". A2.2.  Procedures To Follow for Suspicious Mail.  If any item in paragraph A2.1. is present: A2.2.1.  Do not open the package or letter. A2.2.2.  Leave the package or letter where found. Do not cover it or place it in an area where the EOD robot could not easily access it. If possible, mark the item’s location with a cone or something distinguishable. A2.2.3.  Do not put the package or letter in water or a confined space. A2.2.4.  If possible, ascertain if the addressee is expecting the item. A2.2.5.  Evacuate the immediate area or building. A2.2.6.  From a safe distance, call your emergency response phone number, and contact your chain  of  command.  Do  not  use  a  cell  phone  near  the  suspected  parcel.  Ensure  all  mail employees are accounted for and remain available to answer questions. A2.3.  If  the  letter  or  package  appears  to  contain  a  biological  or  chemical  agent, immediately: A2.3.1.  Call your emergency response phone number and let the first responders control the situation. Be prepared to give a detailed description of the item and its location. A2.3.2.  Turn off all ventilation systems. A2.3.3.  Close all windows and doors. A2.3.4.  Take  digital  pictures  of  the  suspect  package  from  various  angles  without  moving, touching  or  disturbing  the  package.  If  possible  zoom  in  on  the  area(s)  of  the  package  that make it “suspicious”. Ensure to take camera when evacuating. A2.3.5.  Evacuate the immediate area and cordon it off.   10  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 Note:  If biological contamination is suspected, list all persons who have touched or come in close contact with the item.  These personnel cannot come in close contact with others who have evacuated the facility.  Ensure personnel remain at the evacuation point until cleared by first responders to avoid spreading contamination. A2.3.6.  Be  prepared  to  remove  contaminated  clothing.    First  responders  provide  further instructions. A2.3.7.  Wash your hands with soap and warm running water.  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   11  DAILY STARTUP AND MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES FOR THE IONSCAN Attachment 3 A3.1.  Startup and Maintenance Procedures: A3.1.1.  Ensure your hands are clean and surfaces have been cleaned with isopropyl alcohol of 70 percent or greater. A3.1.2.  Check Drierite®, ensuring the color is blue and at least up to the seam on the tube. Approximately  2  cm  of  blue  charcoal  is  needed  to  start  a  shift.    Cartridge  needs  to  be changed once Drierite® has turned pink to 1cm above charcoal. A3.1.3.  Check  for  proper  installation  of  Drierite®  quick  disconnect  fittings,  located  on Drierite® cartridge to unit hoses. A3.1.4.  Visually  inspect  the  air  filters  and  only  remove  them  if  they  need  to  be  cleaned.  Clean  filters  with  compressed  air  or  simply  pat  clean  taking  care  not  to  tear  the  filter.  Heavily  soiled  filters  can  be  rinsed  with  water  but  need  to  be  completely  dry  before replacing. A3.1.5.  Clean the swipe tray and Teflon ring with a clean paper towel wipe dampened with isopropyl alcohol of 70 percent or greater. A3.1.6.  Prior to turning on the IONSCAN, remove the high temperature cover to access the Desorber heater and inlet area.  If cleaning after using the IONSCAN, the system needs to be cooled to room temperature to avoid damage. A3.1.7.  Clean  the  top  of  the  desorber  heater  and  bottom  of  the  inlet  with  a  cotton  swab dampened with isopropyl alcohol of 70 percent or greater. A3.1.8.  Visually inspect the exhaust condenser tube at the top of the unit; has to be replaced if sponge upstream from arrows has turned off white. A3.1.9.  Reinstall the high temperature cover. A3.1.10.  Turn the switch at the back of unit to the ON position. A3.1.11.  Check the lights on the front panel and ensure the yellow standby and green ready lights are on. A3.1.12.  Wait for the “beep”, and then press the ready/standby key.  The green ready light begins to flash on and off. A3.1.13.  Wait  for  the  IONSCAN  to  warm  up,  which  could  take  15  minutes  or  more.    The green “ready” light remains constantly on, followed by a short beep.  The IONSCAN is now ready to begin the sampling process. A3.1.14.  Run a blank analysis by sliding the empty slide tray to the analysis position.  If the Pressure  Auto  Adjust  warning  message  appears  press  “ENTER”  to  clear  the  message.  Repeat  the  blank  analysis  until  the  message  no  longer  appears.    If  the  blank  sample consistently alarms, clean the desorber heater, Teflon ring, and swipe tray with a cotton swab dipped in isopropyl alcohol of 70 percent or greater.  A few passes may be needed in order to burn off all impurities.   12  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 A3.1.15.  Run blank samples until you get two consecutive passes. A3.1.16.  Place  a clean  cotton swipe or swab in the swipe tray.  The cotton swipe needs to have 2 passes within 10 attempts in order to begin the verification process.  The readings do not have to be from consecutive passes. A3.1.17.  Sign  the  verific  printed  receipt  and  record  the  results  in  a  logbook  (operational time,  total  samples  run  to  date,  your  name,  Drierite®  level,  calibrant  level,  and autocalibration and bakeout processes). A3.1.18.  If you do not see a verific alarm, repeat the process a second time. A3.1.19.  If you fail to see a verific alarm after the second attempt, wait 15 minutes and try a third test. Make sure the variability or ∆ (Delta) is within specifications (± 50 μsec from the peak  position).  The  most  accurate  IONSCAN  readings  are  given  if  the  calibrant  level  is closest to absolute zero. A3.1.20.  If  verification  cannot  be  performed  successfully  and  autocalibration  is  available (YES/ NAPP), perform autocalibration (accessed through “function menu”). A3.1.21.  To  perform  an  autocalibration,  place  a  swab  w/verific  lipstick  on  it  into  the  slide tray  and  move  tray  to  the  right  for  analyzing.    After  a  successful  autocalibration,  press  the Save  Exit  and  then  Esc  function  keys  and  proceed  doing  a  verific  using  the  verification lipstick to obtain a verific alarm. After you obtain a verific alarm, press the ALARM RESET button, and thoroughly clean the area with 70% or better isopropyl alcohol. Sign the verific printed receipt and record the results in the logbook. NOTE. Should be rare to use autocalibration. If you need to use autocalibration on a daily basis, system is not operating properly.  Check Drierite® level and ensure IONSCAN is clean. A3.1.22.  Once you get a verific alarm, discard the swab used in the verific alarm process. A3.1.23.  Check your hands and the scanner surfaces to ensure they are not contaminated. A3.1.24.  Place a clean cotton swipe or swab in the swipe tray.  Make sure to handle cotton swab by the edges and avoid touching the middle of the swab were sample is collected.  The cotton  swipe  needs  to  have  2  passes  within  10  attempts  in  order  to  begin  the  verification process.  The readings do not need to be consecutive passes.  (If you continue to get a verific alarm,  be  sure  to  slide  the  swipe  tray  to  the  right  to  burn  off  any  impurities  on  the  Teflon gasket.)  If alarms persist after 5 blank analyses contact Smiths Detection service department. A3.1.25.  Proceed  to  test  your  work  area  and  the  letters  or  packages.  (A  swab  is  good  for approximately 30 applications or until visibly dirty.) A3.1.26.  Make sure the logbook is annotated daily. A3.1.27.  Corrective actions for a positive alarm are as follows: A3.1.27.1.  Run another sample. If it still tests positive, inform your supervisor. A3.1.27.2.  Ensure your hands are clean and scanner surfaces have been cleaned with an isopropyl alcohol wipe of 70 percent or greater. Make sure the integrity of the system is maintained  by  performing  the  aforementioned  methodology.  If  tests  still  result  in  a positive alarm, inform the proper authorities. AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   13  MONTHLY MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES FOR THE IONSCAN Attachment 4 WARNING.  Maintenance activities described need to be performed with the power switch OFF, the AC power cable unplugged, and the unit at room temperature. A4.1.  Maintenance Procedures for the Back of the Unit: A4.1.1.  Turn off the IONSCAN by pressing the ready/standby key (green ready light flashes on and off).  When the IONSCAN prompts you with the question, “Are you sure?”, select the YES button.  Then turn off the IONSCAN with the red power switch on the back of the unit. A4.1.2.  Unplug the AC power cable and printer cable from the IONSCAN. A4.1.3.  Remove the air purification unit by disconnecting the two air line quick connectors located next to the unit. A4.1.4.  Undo the hook-and-loop fastener strips and remove the air purification unit. A4.1.5.  If the filters are dirty simply pat clean, or if extremely dirty, rinse with water and pat dry with a paper towel.  Filters need to be completely dry before replacing. A4.1.6.  Reinstall the air purification unit. A4.1.7.  Secure the air purification unit with the hook-and-loop fastener strips. A4.1.8.  Fasten the air line quick connectors. A4.2.  Maintenance  Procedures  for  the  Front  of  the  Unit:  CAUTION:  Under  no circumstances  should  laboratory  solvents  (especially  halogenated  solvents  such  as  carbon tetrachloride  chloroform,  or  methylene  chloride)  be  introduced  into  the  cell  because  they  can damage the detector. WARNING: Because the ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) detector becomes very hot during operation, this maintenance procedure can only be performed when the system is off and cold. A4.2.1.  Turn the IONSCAN so the front of the unit is facing you. Remove the inlet cover to expose the inlet door and desorber heater. A4.2.2.  While loosening the two captive screws with the screwdriver, simultaneously apply gentle  pressure  with  the  tweezers  to  the  inlet  door  to  prevent  the  screws  and  threads  from stripping. A4.2.3.  While loosening the two captive screws with a flat head screwdriver, simultaneously apply gentle pressure with the tweezers to the inlet door. The door is spring loaded and gentle pressure  while  removing  screws  is  necessary  to  prevent  the  screws  and  threads  from stripping. A4.2.4.  Using  tweezers,  carefully  remove  the  Teflon  gasket  and  inspect  for  damage.  If gasket is damaged or worn, discard. A4.2.5.  Do  not  tear  the  Teflon  gasket.  Place  the  used  Teflon  gasket  in  a  jar  of  isopropyl alcohol  of  70  percent  or  greater.  This  gasket  can  be  used  for  the  following  week’s maintenance replacement. Continue to cycle and change Teflon gaskets in this manner.   14  AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014 A4.2.6.  Using tweezers, lift out the glass inlet liner. If the glass inlet liner is dirty, replace it or clean it with isopropyl alcohol 70 percent or better and allow drying before replacing inlet liner. A4.2.7.  While the inlet glass liner is removed, clean the gold repelling grid. A cotton swab dampened with isopropyl alcohol of 70 percent or greater needs to be gently inserted where the inlet glass liner would normally reside. A4.2.8.  Using  cotton  swab,  gently  press  and  turn  the  swab  against  the  repelling  grid.  Be careful  not  to  press  hard  enough  to  leave  cotton  residue  on  the  repelling  grid  or  to  punch through it. A4.2.9.  Reinstall in reverse order. Do not over tighten the inlet door screws. A4.3.  Maintenance Procedures for the Top of the Unit: A4.3.1.  Visually inspect the exhaust condenser tube assembly during monthly maintenance.  If it appears yellowish or brown in color on any part of the foam area, it is time to replace it. A4.3.2.  If  the  condenser  tube  does  not  require  replacement;  clean  the  condenser  tube  port during monthly maintenance. A4.3.3.  Remove the high voltage power supply by loosening the three screws and sliding it back. A4.3.4.  Using  a  slotted  screwdriver,  unscrew  the  back  fastener  of  the  exhaust  condenser tube.  Do not discard the screw. A4.3.5.  NOTE:  Be  careful  not  to  crack  the  plastic  condenser  tube  or  lose/damage  the  O rings. If you damage the condenser tube or O rings during maintenance, replace it with a new one. NOTE: Be careful not to crack the plastic condenser tube. If you crack it during maintenance, replace it with a new one. A4.3.6.  Push the exhaust condenser tube forward toward the front of the IONSCAN and pull the tube out of the retaining brackets. A4.3.7.  Using some pliers and a strand of wire (a paper clip is sufficient), clear the exhaust port  by  gently  pushing  the  wire  a  few  inches  into  the  port.    Move  the  wire  back  and  forth several times to clear any debris in the port. A4.3.8.  Insert the new exhaust condenser tube into the brackets. NOTE: Replace the condenser tube only if it appears yellowish brown in color. A4.3.9.  Using a slotted screwdriver, screw in the back fastener. A4.3.10.  Reinstall  the  high  voltage  power  supply,  detector  cover,  printer  cable,  and  AC cable. A4.3.11.  Document all maintenance (including cleaning) in the log. A4.3.12.  Proceed to the bakeout process (paragraph A4.4.). A4.4.  Performing the IONSCAN Bakeout Process: AFI33-397  9 JANUARY 2014   15  A4.4.1.  The bakeout is used to clean the IMS detector of contamination accumulated during prolonged use or when analyzing dirty samples. A4.4.2.  The bakeout is automatic, and the time is adjustable. Two hours of bakeout time is recommended. A4.4.3.  Turn the switch on the back of unit to the ON position. A4.4.4.  Check the lights on the front panel and ensure the yellow standby light is flashing. A4.4.5.  Wait  approximately  one  minute  and  then  press  the  ready/standby  key.    The  green ready light flashes on and off. A4.4.6.  Wait  for  the  IONSCAN  to  warm  up,  which  could  take  15  minutes  or  more.    The green ready light remains constantly on, followed by a short beep. A4.4.7.  Place the IONSCAN into standby mode and enter the function menu by pressing the function key.  The green ready light flashes on and off.  When the IONSCAN prompts you with the question, “Are you sure?”, select the YES button. A4.4.8.  In the function menu, highlight  system  maintenance, using the up and down arrow keys. Then press enter. A4.4.9.  In the system maintenance menu, highlight bakeout by using the up and down arrow keys. Then press enter. A4.4.10.  After  selecting  bakeout,  the  screen  prompts  the  user  to  slide  the  sample  tray  into the analyzing (right) position. After sliding tray to the analyzing position press enter. NOTE: The tray cannot be loaded with a sample swipe or cartridge. A4.4.11.  After  the  bakeout  time  has  expired,  the  IONSCAN  returns  to  the  standby  mode. NOTE: The bakeout process can take up to 3 hours to complete.  Make sure the logbook is annotated on the respective bakeout dates.  