BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502 18 APRIL 2017 Personnel MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL RESOURCES     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A1C  Supersedes:  30 March 1994 Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr.  Daniel R. Sitterly, SES) Pages: 11  This publication implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management and AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  policy  for  the management  of  civilian  personnel  resources.    This  instruction  provides  guidance  for  internal management workforce planning and for civilian personnel resource management.  It applies to Title 5 and Title 10 United States Code (USC) civilian employees of the United States Air Force, Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR),  and  Air  National  Guard  (ANG);  the  AFI  does  not  apply  to  Title  32 (USC) Air National Guard technicians.  This Air Force publication may be supplemented at any level;  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)-level  supplements  must  be  approved  by  the  Human Resource  Management  Strategic  Board  (HSB)  prior  to  certification  and  approval.  (T-1)  Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)    using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  The authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  and  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). 2 AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  includes  administrative  changes;  adds  policy  guidance  on  position  classification, manpower,  and  budget  management  relative  to  the  management  of  civilian  resources;  clarifies roles and responsibilities for civilian resource management; adds responsibilities for monitoring incentives  and  overtime;  removes  compliance  demographic  information;  provides  standardized use  of  the  Civilian  Employment  Plan  (CEP)  and  Corporate  Boards;  includes  Tier  Waiver Authorities as outlined in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. 1.  Overview. 1.1.  Managing  civilian  resources.    Managing  appropriated  civilian  resources  demands  a proactive  plan,  discipline,  and  integrity,  both  in  programming  and  executing  civilian resources.    Accurate  requirement  projections  and  development  of  employment  plans  are critical  to  support  the  workload  demand  within  budget,  while  executing  workyears,  end strength  and  civilian  pay  (CIVPAY)  resources.    Tools  used  in  the  overall  management  of civilian resources are: 1.1.1.  Position  Management  and  Classification.    Air  Force  management  officials  and supervisors  assign  duties  and  responsibilities  to  individual  civilian  positions  to accomplish  the  air  and  space  defense  mission  in  an  orderly,  efficient,  and  economical manner.    The  AFPD  36-14,  Position  Management  and  Classification,  governs  position classification. 1.1.2.  Civilian  Employment  Management.  The  Air  Force  is  committed  to  managing civilian manpower within Congressional and budgetary constraints while also balancing mission needs with economy and efficiency of operations. (T-1)  AFPD 38-2, Manpower and Organization, governs policy on manpower management of the Air Force, including the civilian workforce.  Primary controlling factors in managing civilian resources are the identification  and  validation  of  civilian  manpower  requirements  (permanent,  term  and temporary)  by the  availability  of  manpower authorizations, workyears, financial resources and fiscal limitations. the  servicing  manpower  office, 1.1.3.  Financial  Management.    The  Air  Force  promotes  and  implements  financial discipline,  fiscal  integrity,  and  responsible  financial  services  (T-1).    The  AFPD  65-1, Management of Financial Services, governs policy on appropriated and nonappropriated funds  administration  and  control  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Antideficiency  Act  as well as all statutory and regulatory limitations.  It also provides policy guidance to ensure that responsive financial services are provided to Air Force personnel. 1.1.4.  Equal  Employment  Opportunity  (EEO).    The  Air  Force  administers  civilian resource  management  programs  without  unlawful  discrimination  because  of  race,  color, religion,  sex  (including  pregnancy,  gender  identity  and  sexual  orientation),  national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, or prior EEO activity.   AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 3 2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 2.1.  MAJCOM  Commanders/civilian (CCMD) Commanders,  field  operating  agency  (FOAs)  Commanders/civilian  equivalent,  direct reporting  unit  (DRU)  Commanders/civilian  equivalents,  Center  Commanders/civilian equivalents, and Installation Commanders/civilian equivalents establish a corporate board to ensure that civilian resources are used most efficiently and effectively. equivalent,  Combatant  Command 2.1.1.  The commander/civilian equivalent or designated representative chairs the board, which  includes  functional  managers  and  representatives  from  the  civilian  personnel, financial management, and manpower communities. 2.2.  Commanders, Directors, and Supervisors at every level must: (T-1) 2.2.1.  Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, temporary) to the projected length of the workload and available funding. 2.2.2.  Assign duties and responsibilities to individual civilian positions to accomplish the air and space defense mission IAW AFPD 36-14. 2.2.3.  Utilize the AF resource allocation process to approve reprogramming of CIVPAY funds  prior  to  committing  to  long-term  resource  management  plans  (i.e.,  decisions  that commit resources for more than two years). 2.2.4.  Analyze workforce to identify and plan for turnover projections. 2.2.4.1.  Study attrition rates and determine those with retirement eligibility. 2.2.4.2.  Determine current and projected staffing levels. 2.2.4.3.  Determine competencies required for future workforce objectives. 2.2.4.4.  Minimize adverse impact on the workforce. 2.2.4.5.  Track  civilian  resource  costs  and  take  action  to  ensure  successful  budget execution. 2.2.5.  Establish  positions  and  compensate/reward  personnel  within  budget  and  in accordance  with  applicable  authorities,  sound  management  practices,  and  the  advisory services. 2.2.6.  Determine workforce shaping needs. 2.2.6.1.  Request  Voluntary  Early  Retirement  Authority  (VERA)  and  Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments (VSIP), as necessary. 2.2.6.2.  Request authority to conduct Reduction-in-force when needed. 2.3.  Functional  Managers  and  designated  resource  representatives  from  civilian  personnel, financial  management,  and  manpower  communities  act  as  corporate  board  members  and jointly assist managers and supervisors to: (T-1) 2.3.1.  Manage the Unit Manning Document (UMD). 2.3.2.  Develop  and  defend  a  CEP  that  effectively  consolidates  funding,  utilization,  and projections for civilian resources. 4 AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 2.3.3.  Design  position  structures  which  blend  the  skills  and  assignments  of  employees with the goal of successful mission/program/budget accomplishment. 2.4.  Resource advisors from the Manpower offices should: (T-1) 2.4.1.  Determine  and  validate  manpower  requirements  needed  to  accomplish  the mission. 2.4.2.  Process organization change requests for validated manpower requirements. 2.4.3.  Advise  managers  on  the  most  efficient  and  effective  use  of  allocated  manpower resources  (active  duty,  reserve  forces,  civil  service,  and  contractor  manpower equivalents). 2.4.4.  Identify  and  validate  reimbursable  positions  as  well  as  administrative  surcharges associated with foreign military sales (FMS) manning. 2.5.  Financial managers and comptrollers should: (T-1) 2.5.1.  Develop the financial management Execution Plan, which is the principle vehicle used  to  identify  projected  execution  for  the  upcoming  fiscal  year.  The  execution  plan assesses the organization’s funding requirements necessary to meet the CEP. 2.5.2.  Develop  and  review  the  CIVPAY  budget  in  conjunction  with  the  Personnel Budget Review Committee (PRBC) with an overall objective to fully fund the CEP and strive for a 100% fill rate for all authorized positions. 2.5.3.  Project funding requirements based on changes in civilian workforce. 2.5.4.  Reconcile payroll data to personnel and manpower systems. 2.5.5.  Review CIVPAY execution and developing status of funds reports. 2.5.6.  Provide financial management information to leadership for informed decisions on personnel actions (given monthly, quarterly or as required by Corporate Board). 2.5.6.1.  Develop  and  defend  CIVPAY  budget  projections  based  on  programs approved by the corporate board. 2.5.6.2.  Advise the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution as well as funding shortfalls. 2.5.6.3.  Advise managers and supervisors on financial management issues. 2.6.  Resource  Managers  from  the  Civilian  Personnel  Sections  (CPS),  MAJCOM/A1, COCOM/J1, and Center/DP staffs should:  (T-2) 2.6.1.  Advise managers and supervisors on civilian personnel issues. 2.6.2.  Assist managers and supervisors with employment planning, particularly for CEP. 2.6.3.  Prepare  a  CEP  for  assigned  organization(s)  for  the  following  fiscal  year  and forward to AF/A1MP in response to the annual data call. 2.6.4.  Provide corporate boards with reliable data (i.e., actual gains, losses, and projected hires),  patterns  (when  retirements  occur,  workforce  shaping  timelines,  college  and university  graduation  dates,  recruitment  fair  schedules,  etc.),  and  provide  advice AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 5 regarding  monitoring  accomplishments  towards  goals  and  any  over-execution/under-execution. 2.6.5.  Counsel supervisors and managers on the most effective use of civilian resources. 2.6.6.  Aid  in  determining  the  costs  of  position  management,  personnel  administration, and operational requirements, to include: 2.6.6.1.  The cost and impact of recruitment and staffing. 2.6.6.2.  The skills available in the local labor market. 2.6.6.3.  The  use  of  premium  pay,  overtime,  telework  and  flexible  work  schedule options. 2.6.6.4.  The use of recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives. 2.6.6.5.  The use of various appointment types. 2.6.6.6.  Changes in salary rates, geographic locality pay, and special salary rates. 2.7.  Resource advisors from all functional areas should: (T-1) 2.7.1.  Accurately project and program end strength and future requirements. 2.7.2.  Design  position  structures  which  blend  the  skills  and  assignments  of  employees with  the  goal  of  successfully  carrying  out  the  mission  or  program  within  an  assigned budget. 2.7.3.  Accurately project and program end strength and future requirements. 2.7.4.  Provide reliable data for corporate boards and CEP, as requested.  Consider actual gains and losses and projected hires when reporting data. 2.7.4.1.  Report on projections based on timelines for retirements, workforce shaping, college and university graduation dates, recruitment fair schedules, etc. 2.7.4.2.  Monitor  and  report  on  monitoring  accomplishment  towards  meeting  goals, and any over/under execution. 2.8.  Corporate  Board  Members,  comprised  mostly  of  functional  staff  from  manpower, financial management and the civilian personnel communities should: (T-2) 2.8.1.  Provide managers and supervisors with targets  for the civilian resource operating budget, allocate directed adjustments, and redistribute any surplus funds. 2.8.2.  Establish instructions on civilian resource management for assigned resources. 2.8.3.  Identify  which of  the primary  advisory offices (i.e., the organization's supporting manpower,  comptroller  or  personnel  function)  will  serve  as  the  principal  facilitator  for the  corporate  board  meetings.  Duties  of  the  facilitator  include  setting  the  board(s) calendar(s), extending invitations to attend board meetings, developing agenda items, and ensuring appropriate technical advisors attend, gathering the appropriate information for decisions  to  be  made,  overseeing  the  recommendations,  taking  minutes  of  the proceedings and submitting reports to higher headquarters. 2.8.4.  Review civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation level (e.g., CIVPAY and incentives; overtime use; and civilian hiring). 6 AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 2.8.5.  Periodically  review  CEPs  and  compare  CIVPAY  expenditures  against  budgetary targets. 3.  Civilian Resource Management. 3.1.  Management  officials  at  every  level  must  work  together  with  the  appropriate  civilian personnel,  manpower  and  financial  management  resources  to  ensure  civilian  resources  are managed within budget while managing mission needs. (T-1) Cost effectiveness, operational economy, efficiency, skills, career paths, employee development and motivation, recruitment and  retention  of  competent  employees  are  essential.  When  necessary  analysis  and  impact downsizing and/or closure must be assessed. (T-1) 3.2.  Each  management  official  who  employs  civilian  personnel  must  prudently  manage civilian  resources  and  will  be  held  accountable  for  their  immediate  supervision.  (T-1)  Managers  and  higher  level  supervisors  at  each  level  must  evaluate  their  subordinate supervisors  on  how  well  they  manage  their  civilian  resources  and  take  prompt  and appropriate action to correct or reward supervisory performance. (T-1) 3.3.  Managers  are  responsible  for  taking  a  proactive  approach  to  project  future  workforce needs  to  include  analyzing  their  present  workforce  to  identify  turnover  projections  and retirement  eligible  employee  numbers,  determine  current  and  projected  staffing  levels,  and ascertain required competencies for future workforce objectives. 3.4.  Civilian  personnel,  comptroller  and  manpower  staffs  strategically  partner  with management  officials  by  providing  advice  and  guidance  to  effectively  develop  and  execute workforce strategies. 3.5.  Effective management of civilian employment starts the fiscal year (FY) with a baseline strength/dollar  amount  and  ends  the  FY  with  the  final  strength/dollar  amount  expended.  These  numbers  are  compared  against  the  beginning  of  the  next  fiscal  year’s  manpower allocation and documents the CIVPAY dollars expended as a percentage of the budget for the fiscal year in which it was allocated.  It’s the goal of civilian employment planning to end the year as close to that final number as possible (i.e., workyears and/or CIVPAY dollars). The challenge of employment planning is to gain control of the civilian employment program at the beginning of the FY, confront  the challenges  and problems  encountered along the way, and effectively manage civilian resources throughout the FY. 3.6.  CIVPAY funding is a joint effort between FM and A1. Initial distribution of dollars and the CEP should be aligned at the start of the fiscal year. 4.  The Civilian Employment Plan (CEP). 4.1.  The primary purpose of the CEP is  to  provide a plan  for execution  of FY  civilian end strength, workyears, and funding.  The CEP is a joint document between A1, manpower and FM  that  is  used  to  track  and  report  civilian  employment  and  resources,  using  a  balance between dollars and workyears. The CEP should: (T-2) 4.1.1.  Reflect the funded workyears as approved in President’s Budget and may include AF corporate changes, correction of programming errors or misdirected mission changes, as well as MAJCOM transfers. AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 7 4.1.2.  Provide  a  baseline  to  measure  civilian  workyear/budget  execution,  measures progress on a regular basis. 4.1.3.  Provide  a  month-to  month  review  and  oversight  of  planned  and  actual  workyear execution. 4.1.4.  Track gains and losses in employment levels (i.e., inbound and outbound civilians) using a standardized spreadsheet or locally developed data system product. 4.1.5.  Track  civilian  manning  (both  authorized  and  assigned)  and  the  expenditure  of CIVPAY dollars, including both actual and projected actions. 4.1.6.  Identify  issues  impacting  execution  (e.g.,  over-execution,  under-execution,  and mismatches in manning and funding, Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) changes). 4.1.6.1.  The  target  or  “end  strength”  is  programmed  by  AF/A1M  (manpower), “workyears”  are  calculated  by  AF/A1  and  SAF/FM  and  funding  is  the  pricing  of workyears.    It  is  the  combination  of  these  factors  that  drive  the  establishment  and maintenance  and  successful  adherence  to  effective  financial  management  of  the civilian workforce. 4.1.6.2.  MAJCOM  FMA/A1K/A1M  (and  CCMD  equivalents)  determine  workyear distribution  for  their  Centers/Wings.    They  identify  corresponding  workyears  based on  subordinate  organization’s  UMD  end  strengths  and  pinpoint  any  additional MAJCOM transfers needed. 4.1.7.  Provide management a tool to project the end-of-year position. 5.  The Corporate Boards  . 5.1.  The boards are chaired at all organizational levels by the Commander or their designee.  The  Corporate  Board  voting  members  vary  depending  upon  the  organization  level  of  the Board,  for  example  Wing  Commanders/Vice  Commander  and  Group  Commanders  or  their civilian  equivalents  may  be  voting  members  on  installation  level  boards.      Functional managers  from  the  civilian  personnel,  financial  management,  and  manpower  communities and  in  some  cases  the  Judge  Advocate  General  (JAG)  may  also  serve  as  an  advisory members. The overall goal of civilian employment planning is the full, effective utilization of civilian  resources  to  accomplish  assigned,  mission-related  work  within  a  given  CIVPAY budget.  The corporate boards at each organizational level with support from the manpower, comptroller  and  civilian  personnel  communities,  are  responsible  for  managing  employment planning.  They  boards  are  established  to  ensure  that  civilian  resources  are  used  most effectively and efficiently. The corporate boards meet regularly to: (T-2) 5.1.1.  Review  turnover,  hiring  timelines,  lapse  rates  and  the  utilization  of  resources  for seasonal work requirements (e.g., snow removal, grass cutting). in  CIVPAY  dollars,  workload 5.1.2.  Consider  challenges  such  as realignments, incentive/performance awards, retirements, pay  adjustments (i.e., Cost-of-Living  increases,  changes  in  geographic  locations,  special  salary  rates,  etc.),  Within-Grade Increases (WGIs) and Quality Step Increases (QSIs). reductions 5.1.3.  Consider  other  issues  affecting  CEP  execution  which  include  manpower  impacts such  as  downsizing,  in-sourcing  &  out-sourcing,  realigning  and  rebalancing  the  force 8 AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 using workforce shaping measures (e.g., Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)  and reduction-in-force (RIF)),  conversions to  permanent  authorizations  from  other  sources  such  as  career  broadening,  PALACE Acquires,  Pathways,  UMD  changes  due  to  Congressional  budget  shortages  and organizational restructuring as well as furloughs (both administrative and shutdown). 5.1.4.  Identify  and  face  the  hindrances  that  impact  their  ability  to  achieve  overall  CEP goals  and  overcome  obstacles  such  as  a  slow  employment  process,  downsizing  due  to Base  Realignment  and  Closure  (BRAC)  or  manpower  reductions,  military-civilian conversions,  overly  conservative  advisors,  funding  shortfalls,  competing/conflicting interests or inadequate pay data and analysis. 5.1.5.  Monitor  the  CEP  closely,  advise  senior  management  on  a  regular  basis  on  the status of the CEP, and keep the support team advised of key management decisions and information that impact civilian employment levels.  (T-1) 5.2.  CIVPAY funding is a joint effort between FM and A1. Initial distribution of dollars and the CEP should be aligned at the start of each fiscal year. 5.3.  The beginning and end strength/dollars allocated form the basis for annual hiring plans. 5.4.  Support staffs provide corporate boards with reliable data (i.e., actual gains, losses, and projected hires), patterns (when retirements occur, workforce shaping timelines, college and university  graduation  dates,  recruitment  fair  schedules,  etc.),  and  advice  regarding monitoring accomplishments towards meeting goals and any over/under-execution. 5.5.  They  provide  managers  and  supervisor  with  targets  for  the  civilian  resource  operating budgets, allocate directed adjustments and redistributes surplus funds. 5.6.  Corporate board members are to remain flexible to effectively oversee HR-related issues while  ensuring  resources  align  with  strategic  planning,  process  improvements,  process integration and senior level direction.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY, SES Acting Assistant Secretary (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, July 23, 2013 AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, June 1, 2015 AFPD 36-14, Position Management and Classification, February 1, 1996 AFPD 38-1, Organization and Unit Designations, August 24, 2011 AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, July 1, 1996 AFI17-100_AFGM2016-01, Air Force Information Technology (IT) Service Management, September 16, 2014 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, January 12, 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, December 1, 2015 AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, Aug 16, 2012 AFI 65-601, Vol 2, Budget Management for Operations, May 18, 2012 AFI 65-601, Vol 3, The Air Force Budget Corporate Process, Aug 8, 2011 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 Prescribed Forms None. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure CEP—Civilian Employment Plan CIVPAY—Civilian Pay 10 AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 CPS—Civilian Personnel Section CCMD—Combatant Command COCOM—Combatant Command Authority DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DRU—Direct Reporting Unit EO—Equal Opportunity FOA—Field Operating Agency FOUO—For Official Use Only FY—Fiscal Year FYDP—Future Years Defense Program FMS—Foreign Military Sales IAW—In accordance with IT—Information Technology HSB—Human Resource Management Strategic Board MAJCOM—Major Command NGB—National Guard Bureau OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PA—Privacy Act PAQs—PALACE Acquires PII—Personally Identifiable Information PBRC— Personnel Budget Review Committee QSI—Quality Step Increase RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RIF –Reduction-in—Force SORN—System of Records Notice USC—United States Code VERA—Voluntary Early Retirement Authority VSIP—Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay WGI – Within—Grade Increase Terms Civilian  Employment  Plan  (CEP)—the process and in  some cases, system,  used to  track  and report civilian employment resources. AFI36-502  18 APRIL 2017 11 Civilian Pay (CIVPAY) Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority dollars and earnings from reimbursements. Civilian  Personnel  Resources—The  CIVPAY  dollars  allocated  to  an  organization  for  the purpose of civilian employment. Civilian  Resource  Management—The  practice  of  balancing  mission  needs,  operational economy  and  efficiency,  skills  and  career  paths,  employee  development  and  motivation,  and recruitment and retention of competent people within a CIVPAY budget. Employment  Planning—Identifying employment  levels  and work  years needed to  accomplish the mission within the CIVPAY budget. Human  Resource  Management  Strategic  Board  (HSB)—One  of  two  primary  decision-making  bodies  at  the  Air  Staff  that  provides  direction  for  the  human  resource  management domain. PALACE  Acquires—PALACE  Acquire  (PAQ)  Program  hires  are  provided  USAF-funded training before being outplaced into a permanent funded position. Personnel Budget Review Committee (PBRC)— The PBRC reviews Air Force MILPERS and CIVPERS budgets and personnel management plans, evaluates risk mitigation, and assesses the impact  of  execution  strategies  on  out-year  programs  and  budgets.  The  PBRC  is  a  forum  to provide leadership with an update on the AF personnel budget and to provide recommendations to the Air Force Board and Air Force Council for final approval Resource  Allocation  Process—The  Air  Force  corporate  approach  to  planning,  programming, and budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years.  The process uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior leadership. Unit  Manning  Document  (UMD)— Identifies specifics about every authorized position in the Air Force; provides the organization structure and hierarchy for the organization; and identifies unit designations and office symbols.  