BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-286921 JUNE 2005Incorporating Through Change 3, 3 March 2008GENERAL COUNSEL AWARDS PROGRAMPersonnelCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-Publishing on AF Links) for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR: SAF/GCA Supersedes AFI36-2869, 11 October 2002Certified by: SAF/GC(Mr. Don Fox)Pages: 6This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, and describes the General Counselawards presented to individuals in recognition of their outstanding service and contributions to theDepartment of the Air Force. It explains who is eligible for the awards, the criteria and procedures fornomination, and who selects the winners. It applies to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve person-nel. SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis interim change (IC) amends AFI 36-2869, General Counsel Awards Program. It adds a new type ofGeneral Counsel Award, “The General Counsel’s Excellence in Ethics Program Award” (new paragraph3.5.) and republishes what was paragraph 3.5. as a new paragraph 3.6. A margin bar indicates newlyrevised material.1.  Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/GC. The General Counsel: 1.1.  Manages the General Counsel’s Award Program 1.2.  Establishes award criteria 1.3.  Announces award recipients each year 1.4.  Acquires plaques and other tangible awards 1.5.  Arranges for the presentation of the awards 1.6.  Ensures that all records created pursuant to this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAWAFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.” 2AFI36-2869   21 JUNE 20052.  Selecting Recipients. The General Counsel: 2.1.  Accepts nominations 2.2.  May appoint a formal or informal panel to review nominations and make recommendations con-cerning selection of recipients 2.3.  Makes final selection of recipients 2.4.  May decide not to make an award if he/she finds no suitable nominees 3.  Awards:  3.1.  The General Counsel’s Award: This award is presented by the General Counsel and recognizesone or more attorneys from the staffs of the General Counsel and The Judge Advocate General,including Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve personnel, who have clearly demonstratedinnovative, efficient, and effective use of legal resources and personnel in a collaborative way to ben-efit Air Force clients. This award can recognize either continuing contributions or a single achieve-ment that reflects effort above and beyond that which is typically displayed in accomplishingassignments and the workload of the Air Force legal team. There is no limitation on the number ofnominations that may be submitted; however, each must be indorsed by at least one supervising attor-ney. The last day for meeting the eligibility requirements is December 31st of the year for which theaward is being given. Nominations will be made on Air Force 1206, Nomination for Award; a com-pleted proposed award citation will follow the format found in AFI 36-2805; a biographical sketchmay also be submitted. Military and civilian recipients will receive an award certificate and plaque. 3.2.  The General Counsel’s Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Award: This award is presented bythe General Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (includ-ing Major Commands) to advance the Air Force ADR and negotiations program and the goal of earlyand/or successful appropriate dispute resolution processes in avoidance of, or in furtherance of the AirForce’s interests in, litigation. Any Air Force organization or employee of the Department of the AirForce (including non-attorneys) may be eligible for this award. Nominations for this award will bemade on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation inthe format found in AFI 36-2805, through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel,Dispute Resolution Division (SAF/GCD). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will beannounced by SAF/GCD on a periodic basis. SAF/GCD will make recommendations to the GeneralCounsel, who will select award winners. Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate andplaque. 3.3.  The General Counsel’s Procurement Fraud Remedies Award: This award is presented by theGeneral Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (includingMajor Commands) to advance the Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program. Any Air Forceorganization or employee of the Department of the Air Force (including non-attorneys) may be eligi-ble for this award. Nominations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination forAward, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805,through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Contractor Responsibility (SAF/GCR). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be announced by SAF/GCR on a periodicbasis. SAF/GCR will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select award winners.Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate. AFI36-2869   21 JUNE 200533.4.  The General Counsel’s Procurement Law Award: This award is presented by the General Coun-sel to recognize the contributions of an individual to advance the Air Force practice of acquisition oroperational contract law. Nominations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination forAward, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805,through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Acquisition Law Division (SAF/GCQ). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be announced by SAF/GCQ on a periodicbasis. SAF/GCQ will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select the award win-ner. Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate. 3.5.  The General Counsel’s Excellence in Ethics Program Award: This award is presented by the AirForce General Counsel to recognize a group or organization’s exceptional contributions to the promo-tion of the Air Force culture of ethics based on our Core Values and as a part of an ethics program. Theaward may be given either for a single year of extraordinary accomplishments or for a pattern of trulyexemplary accomplishments over a period spanning several years. Any Air Force group or organiza-tion (including a Major Command) is eligible for this award. Nominations for this award will be madeon AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in theformat found in AFI 36-2805, and forwarded through command channels to the Office of the GeneralCounsel, Fiscal and Administrative Law Division (SAF/GCA). Calls for nominations and the awardcriteria, will be announced by the General Counsel on a periodic basis. SAF/GCA will make recom-mendations to the General Counsel, who will select award winners. Recipients of this award willreceive an award certificate and plaque. 3.6.  The General Counsel’s Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award: The General Counsel maypresent performance recognition coins to personnel of the Department of the Air Force, including theAir National Guard and Air Force Reserve, and to personnel of other military departments and Exec-utive Branch agencies for outstanding contributions or service rendered in furtherance of the AirForce mission. Presentation of the coin award recognizes either continuing contributions or a singleachievement. The purpose of this coin is to provide the General Counsel with an informal means toshow recognition of and appreciation for outstanding job performance. Presentation of the GeneralCounsel's Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award to personnel of other military departments andExecutive Branch agencies will be set forth in a memorandum signed by the General Counsel citingthe basis for recognition, a copy of which shall be kept by the Office of the General Counsel. MARY L. WALKER General Counsel of the Air Force 4AFI36-2869   21 JUNE 2005Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule AFI36-2869   21 JUNE 20055Attachment 2 INTERIM CHANGE (IC) 2005-1 TO AFI 36-2689, GENERAL COUNSEL AWARDS PROGRAM21 JUNE 2005 SUMMARY OF REVISIONS This interim change (IC) amends AFI 36-2869, General Counsel Awards Program (11 October 2002). It designates Mr. Joseph L. Trombo, SAF/GCA as the OPR, and corrects the honorific used for the certify-ing official. It also adds two varieties of General Counsel Awards: The General Counsel Alternative Dis-pute Resolution Award (new paragraph 3.2.), and The General Counsel Procurement Fraud Award (new paragraph 3.3.). It expands eligibility for the General Counsel’s Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award to personnel of other military departments and Executive Branch agencies, for outstanding contri-butions or service rendered in furtherance of the Air Force mission (amended paragraph 3.4.). OPR: SAF/GCA (Mr. Joseph L. Trombo) Certified by: SAF/GC (The Honorable Mary L. Walker) 3.2. The General Counsel’s Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Award: This award is presented by the General Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (including Major Commands) to advance the Air Force ADR and negotiations program and the goal of early and/or suc-cessful appropriate dispute resolution processes in avoidance of, or in furtherance of the Air Force’s inter-ests in, litigation. Any Air Force organization or employee of the Department of the Air Force (including non-attorneys) is eligible for this award. Nominations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805, through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Dispute Resolution Division (SAF/GCD). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be announced by SAF/GCD on a periodic basis. SAF/GCD will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select the award winner. Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate and plaque. 3.3. The General Counsel’s Procurement Fraud Remedies Award: This award is presented by the General Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (including Major Com-mands) to advance the Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program. Any Air Force organization or employee of the Department of the Air Force (including non-attorneys) is eligible for this award. Nomi-nations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805, through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Contractor Responsibility (SAF/GCR). Calls for nominations, and the award crite-ria, will be announced by SAF/GCR on a periodic basis. SAF/GCR will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select the award winner. Recipients of this award will receive an award certif-icate. 3.4. The General Counsel’s Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award: The General Counsel may present performance recognition coins to personnel of the Department of the Air Force, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve, and to personnel of other military departments and Executive Branch agencies for outstanding contributions or service rendered in furtherance of the Air Force mission. Presentation of the coin award recognizes either continuing contributions or a single achievement. The purpose of this coin is to provide the General Counsel with an informal means to show recognition of and appreciation for outstanding job performance. Presentation of the General Counsel's Recognition and 6AFI36-2869   21 JUNE 2005Appreciation Coin Award to personnel of other military departments and Executive Branch agencies will be set forth in a memorandum signed by the General Counsel citing the basis for recognition, a copy of which shall be kept by the Office of the General Counsel. 