BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1042 19 OCTOBER 2016 Civil Engineering STANDARDS FOR MARKING AIRFIELDS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at  www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A4CS  Supersedes:  AFI32-1042, 27 October 2005  Certified by: AF/A4CS  (Col Laurie K. Richter) Pages: 5 This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  policy  directive  (AFPD)  32-10,  Installations  and Facilities.  It  provides  Air  Force  standards  for  marking  airfield  pavements  and  obstructions.  It applies to all Air Force activities except those operating at airports owned and controlled by an authority  other  than  the  Department  of  Defense  (DoD).  For  airports  under  Federal  Aviation Administration (FAA) jurisdiction, use FAA Advisory Circular (AC) 150/5340-1, Standards for Airport  Markings.  For  DoD  facilities  overseas,  if  a  written  agreement  exists  between  the  host nation  and  DoD  that  requires  application  of  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO), International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO),  or  FAA  standards,  those  standards  apply  as stipulated  within  the  agreement.  For  cases  where  a  Status  of  Forces  Agreement  (SOFA) specifically  requires  international  standards,  use  ICAO  Annex  14,  Volume  I,  Aerodromes  (for fixed wing runways) or Annex 14, Volume II, Heliports (for rotary wing helipads and runways), as appropriate. Air Force tenant organizations on civil airports should use these standards on the military portion of the airfield to the maximum extent practicable; otherwise, FAA criteria apply. Use  this  instruction  in  conjunction  with  the  layout  guidance  provided  in  ETL  04-2,  Standard Airfield  Pavement  Marking  Schemes  (or  future  UFC  3-260-04)  This  publication  may  be supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  direct  Supplements  are  routed  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  of  this  publication  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  approval.    The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirement in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications and  Forms  Management,  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, 2 AFI32-1042  19 OCTOBER 2016 Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN) 33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  The use of the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  is  substantially  revised  and  requires  complete  review.  This  revision  of  Air Force  Instruction  (AFI)  32-1042  clarifies  the  application  of  criteria  in  the  purpose  paragraph; changes  the  waiver  approval  authority  for  waivers;  clarifies  waiver  processing  procedures clarifies  and  updates  information  for  marking  obstructions  on  joint-use  airfields;  updates references  to  related  documents;  clarifies  obstruction  marking  requirements  for  groups  of obstructions; and updates the references, acronyms, abbreviations, and terms provided within the instruction. 1.  Background.  This instruction uses standards developed from: 1.1.  FAA Advisory Circulars (AC). 1.2.  NATO Standardization Agreements (STANAG). 1.3.  Air Standardization Coordinating Committee (ASCC) Air Standards. 1.4.  Annex 14 of the ICAO Convention on International Aviation. 2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  The  MAJCOM  Director  of  Operations  (MAJCOM/A3)  is  the  approval  authority  for waiver  requests  for  marking  deviations,  including  application  of  non-standard  markings. Non-standard  markings  are  those  not  defined  within  any  Air  Force,  Department  Of Transportation  (FAA  and  Federal  Highway  Administration  [FHWA]),  ICAO,  ASCC,  or NATO standard appropriate for application at the given installation. 2.2.  Headquarters,  Air  Force  Installation  and  Mission  Support  Center,  Installation Engineering  Division  (AFIMSC/IZB)  and  AFIMSC  Detachment  2  &  4  representatives perform  a  technical  review,  and  forward  waiver  requests  to  the  MAJCOM  for  coordination with  ground  safety,  weapons  safety  (to  ensure  quantity-distance  criteria  are  met),  flight safety, airfield management, and flight operations prior to MAJCOM/A3 consideration. 2.2.1.  AFIMSC Det 2 will provide technical reviews and forwarding of waiver requests for PACAF installations. 2.2.2.  AFIMSC Det 4 will provide technical reviews and forwarding of waiver requests for USAFE installations. 2.2.3.  AFIMSC/IZB  will  provide  technical  reviews  and  forwarding  of  waiver  requests for all other installations. AFI32-1042  19 OCTOBER 2016 3 2.3.  Installation commanders may authorize additional standardized markings but will make a  formal  request  for  waivers  of  non-standard  markings  through  HQ  AFIMSC/IZB  or designated AFIMSC detachment to MAJCOM/A3. 2.3.1.  For  Joint  Bases,  the  Installation  Commander  is  the  Joint  Base  Commander responsible for installation support. 2.3.2.  EXCEPTION:  Installation  commanders  may  not  submit  a  formal  request  to exempt obstructions from obstruction marking requirements at joint civilian/military use airfields.  For  this  instruction,  a  joint  civilian/military  use  airfield  is  defined  as  an installation  where  written  agreement  between  the  military  department  and  a  local government  agency  authorize use of the military runways for a public  airport.  For joint civilian/military use installations, the installation commander will ensure all obstructions as  defined  within  Federal  Aviation  Regulation  Part  77,  Objects  Affecting  Navigable Airspace (see extract in Unified Facilities Criteria [UFC] 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, Attachment 6) or ICAO Annex 14, as applicable, must be marked in  accordance  with  either  FAA  AC  70/7460-1,  Obstruction  Marking  and  Lighting,  or ICAO Annex 14, as appropriate. (T-0) 2.4.  The Base Civil Engineer's (BCE) representative will: 2.4.1.  Ensure that airfield markings comply with this instruction and ETL 04-2, Standard Airfield Pavement Marking Schemes (or future UFC 3-260-04 upon publication). (T-0) 2.4.2.  Ensure  that  airfield  markings  clearly  delineate  closed  and  hazardous  areas, especially during construction projects. (T-0) 2.4.3.  Develop  a  schedule  with  local  flight  safety  office  and  Airfield  Manager  for monitoring and periodic inspection of airfield markings and obstructions. (T-2) 2.4.4.  Schedule  maintenance  and  remarking  of  airfield  and  vehicular  access  roadway pavements. (T-2) 2.4.5.  Prepare,  coordinate  and  submit  waiver  requests  and  supporting  documentation  to airfield  management,  safety  (flight,  ground,  and  weapons),  and  flight  operations  for coordination  before  requesting  the  installation  commander's  approval  for  processing  at HQ AFIMSC/IZB or the appropriate Detachment. (T-2) 2.4.6.  Prepare, coordinate, and submit a final copy of all waiver requests to all interested offices  at  the  installation,  AFIMSC,  and  MAJCOM  levels.  At  minimum,  the  BCE representative must provide copies of waivers to civil engineering, airfield management, and safety. (T-2)  JOHN B. COOPER, Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Engineering & Force Protection 4 AFI32-1042  19 OCTOBER 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities FAA AC 150/5340-1, Standards for Airport Markings ICAO Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, Volume I, Aerodrome Design and Operations ICAO Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, Volume II, Heliports ETL 04-2, Standard Airfield Pavement Marking Schemes AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design FAA AC 70/7460-1, Obstruction Marking and Lighting Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AC—advisory circular AFI—Air Force instruction AFMAN—Air Force manual AFPD—Air Force policy directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ASCC—Air Standardization Coordinating Committee BCE—base civil engineer DoD—Department of Defense ETL—Engineering Technical Letter FAA—Federal Aviation Administratio FHWA—Federal Highway Administration ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization MAJCOM—major command NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization RDS—Records Disposition Service AFI32-1042  19 OCTOBER 2016 5 SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement STANAG—Standardization Agreement UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria  