BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3035 5 JUNE 2017 Personnel PHYSICAL DISABILITY  BOARD OF REVIEW     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  SAF/MRB   Certified by: SAF/MR  (Daniel R. Sitterly, SES) Pages: 9  This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  36-30  Military  Entitlements, and  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI)  6040.44,  Physical  Disability  Board  of  Review (PDBR).  It establishes procedures for reviewing, in accordance with the guidance found at DoDI 6040.44,  Enclosure  3,  the  disability  rating(s)  and/or  finding(s)  of  fitness  awarded  to  a  military member separated between September 11, 2001 and December 31, 2009, but found not eligible for retirement.  It explains how to apply for this review and the responsibilities of the offices that process  applications,  perform  the  reviews  and  act  upon  the  recommendations.    It  applies  to  all current  and  former  members  of  the  Regular  Air  Force,  Air  Force  Reserve,  Air  National  Guard and anyone with proper interest in the correction of an Air Force military record. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services (HQ  USAF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for  Physical  Disability  Board  of  Review  (PDBR). This Air Force publication may be supplemented at any level; MAJCOM-level supplements must be approved by the HSB prior to certification and approval.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.    This  Instruction  requires  collecting  and 2 AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 maintaining  information  protected  by  the  Privacy  Act  of  1974.    System  of  Records  Notices (SORN)  F036,  Air  Force  Correction  Board  Records  apply  and  are  available  at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.”    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  This is an initial publication.  1.  The  Physical  Disability  Board  of  Review  (PDBR).  The  PDBR  is  a  Congressionally mandated  board  that  reviews  certain  separations  for  medical  conditions  where  the  rating  was 20%  or  less  and  the  member  did  not  otherwise  retire.    The  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for Personnel and Readiness retains overall responsibility for the board, but  has designated the Air Force as lead agent for implementing the process. 2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.  The responsibilities of the Secretary of the Air Force are delineated in DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 2, paragraph 5. 2.2.  President  PDBR.  DoDI  6040.44,  Enclosure  2  sets  forth  the  qualifications  for  the President.  The President will be responsible for: 2.2.1.  Ensuring PDBR operations are in compliance with DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 3 and this instruction, and conducted in a manner consistent with policy guidance and direction provided  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  and  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  for Health Affairs (ASD (HA)). 2.2.2.  Ensuring PDBR members and staff are properly trained. 2.2.3.  Ensuring PDBR operations are conducted in an effective and efficient manner with transparency and accountability. 2.2.4.  Ensuring  case  reviews  are  scheduled  to  give  equitable  consideration  to  requests regardless of status, service or component affiliation. 2.2.5.  Establishing and maintaining a liaison with those offices in the Army, Navy, Coast Guard and Air Force that implement disability processing. 2.2.6.  Establishing  and  maintaining  a  liaison  with  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs (DVA). 2.2.7.  Maintaining access to, or awareness of, Army, Navy, Coast Guard and Air Force policies governing the Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) and Physical Evaluation Board (PEB). 2.2.8.  Managing  timeliness  and  tracking  performance  on  meeting  the  various  time guidelines IAW DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 3 paragraph 5. 2.2.9.  Supporting  the  DES  Quality  Assurance  Process  consistent  with  DoD  Instruction 1332.18,  “Disability  Evaluation  System  (DES),”  August  5,  2014,  and  DoD  Manual 1332.18, Volume 3, “Disability Evaluation  System  (DES) Manual:  “Quality Assurance Program,” November 21, 2014. AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 3 2.3.  Chief Joint Central Adjudication Unit (JCAU)  The Chief JCAU will be responsible for overall operation of the JCAU which reviews the disability rating using the guidance in DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 3 and reaches a recommendation on each application. 2.3.1.  Ensures board members are properly designated on orders. 2.3.2.  The  Chief  JCAU  will  be  responsible  for  the  overall  operations  of  the  Central Intake Unit  (CITU) which receives  and reviews  applications, obtains and assembles the military and DVA records necessary to perform the required review. 2.3.3.  Acts as the liaison with DVA to address issues between DVA and the PDBR. 2.3.4.  Assigns  case  processing  and  board  duty  responsibilities  to  board  members  on  a fair and equitable basis, ensuring that the component representation requirements listed in DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 3 are met. 2.3.5.  Ensures adequate administrative support (copiers, scanners, IT equipment, etc.) for board operations. 3.  Application Procedures. 3.1.  Who  May  Apply.  The covered individual, their surviving spouse, next of kin or legal representative. 3.2.  Getting  Information  and  Forms.  Information  on  the  PDBR  process  including frequently  asked  questions  and  links  to  the  application  (DD  Form  294,  Application  for Review of Physical Disability Separation from the Armed Forces of the United States) can be found at the following web site: http://www.health.mil/pdbr. 3.3.  Submitting the Application.  Applicants should complete all applicable sections of the DD Form 294 including at least: 3.3.1.  The name under which the member served. 3.3.2.  The member's social security number and branch of service. 3.3.3.  The applicant's current mailing address. 3.3.4.  The date of separation and percentage of disability awarded. 3.3.5.  Consent to release of DVA Records. 3.3.6.  Proof of proper interest if requesting correction of another person's records. 3.3.7.  The applicant's signature. 3.3.8.  Applicants  should  mail  the  original  signed  DD  Form  294  and  any  supporting documents to the address on the back of the form. (SAF/MRBR, 550-C Street West, Suite 41 Randolph AFB, TX  78150-4743). 3.4.  Information  Accompanying  an  Application.  An  applicant  may  submit  statements, briefs,  medical  records,  documentary  evidence  outside  DoD  possession,  or  affidavits  in support of his/her application. 3.5.  Counsel  Representation.  Applicants  may  be  represented  by  counsel,  at  their  own expense.    Personal  appearance,  with  or  without  private  counsel,  is  not  allowed.    The  term 4 AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 "counsel"  includes  members  in  good  standing  of  the  bar  of  any  state  and  accredited representatives of veterans organizations recognized under 38 USC§ 5902. 3.6.  Board Initiated Review.  There may be situations where it is appropriate for the PDBR to initiate a review of one or more covered individual’s disability ratings. 3.6.1.  If the President approves the board review, he or she will notify the member, their surviving  spouse,  next  of  kin,  or  legal  representative  of  the  proposed  review  and  the rationale for conducting it.  The President will document consent to the proposed review by asking them to submit a DD Form 294.  If the potential applicant does not consent to the  review,  no  further  action  will  be  taken,  but  the  notification  and  election correspondence  and  a  brief  synopsis  of  the  facts  and  circumstances  that  supported  the board request for review will be made a matter of record. 3.6.2.  Refusal to consent to a board review will not prevent the member, their surviving spouse, next of kin or legal representative from subsequently requesting review. 4.  Case Processing  . 4.1.  Upon  receipt  of  an  application,  the  CITU  will  open  a  case  in  the  current  case management  database  and  ensure  that  the  DD  Form  294  is  signed,  submitted  by  a  proper applicant,  and  has  all  required  information,  acknowledgements  and  releases.    Applications not signed will be rejected and returned to the applicant for proper signature. 4.2.  Deficient  Applications.  If  the  application  is  deficient,  the  CITU  will  notify  the applicant  by  email  or  in  writing  providing  a  detailed  explanation  of  the  application’s deficiencies.    The  applicant  will  be  advised  that  they  will  have  60  days  to  remedy  the deficiency; and that if the application is  not remedied, or no answer is  received  within that time frame, the case will be closed without prejudice.  If the application is complete, but the Chief,  JCAU  determines  from  its  face  that  it  does  not  meet  the  criteria  for  review,  (for example  the  separation  date  was  prior  to  September  11,  2001)  the  application  will  be rejected.  The applicant will be notified in writing or email of the rationale for the rejection and of the option to appeal to the appropriate Board for Correction of Military Records. 4.3.  If  the  application  is  accepted,  the  CITU  will  acknowledge  and  provide  the  applicant with  the  case  tracking  identification  number  for  future  reference.    This  receipt  notice  will also  inform  the  applicant  that  they  may  provide  additional  documentary  evidence  outside DoD possession. 4.4.  If  the  applicant  has  indicated  in  the  application  that  a  DVA  disability  rating  has  been awarded,  the  CITU  will  ensure  the  applicant  has  provided  a  copy  of  the  VA  Form  3288 and/or signed the VA consent portion of the DD Form 294.  The failure to provide consent election will not render an application deficient. 4.4.1.  If  the  applicant  refuses  to  consent  to  DVA  record  access  the  disability  rating assigned  by  the  PEB  will  be  evaluated  for  fairness  and  accuracy  with  the  information available, but the comparison to the subsequent DVA rating discussed in DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 3, Paragraph 4 a. (5) (a), (b) will not be performed.  Note: This consequence of non-consent (or lack of access) to DVA records is explained in the instructions to the DD Form 294. AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 5 4.4.2.  Once  an  application  is  determined  to  be  complete  and  within  the  adjudicative guidelines  of  DoDI  6040.44,  CITU  will  obtain;  1)  PEB  and  MEB  records  from  the appropriate  Service  PEB  organization;  2)  DVA  rating  decisions  and  associated examination  results,  and;  3)  service  treatment  records  (STR)  from  the  Veterans  Affairs Regional Offices or other applicable DVA function.  These record elements constitute a complete  case-file  that  will  enable  the  PDBR  to  fairly  reassess  an  applicant’s  current DoD  disability  rating.    Once  scanned,  the  DD  Form  149  and  any  attachments,  will  be maintained  on  file  until  adjudication  has  been  completed  and  the  case  has  been  closed, then destroyed. 4.4.3.  Missing Records - Adjudication Not Impacted:  Normally only complete case files will be adjudicated.    If the CITU has been unsuccessful in  obtaining  copies of  required documents  (even  after  requesting  the  applicant’s  assistance)  or  anticipates  an  excessive delay in obtaining such documents and believes the case can be adjudicated without the records;  it  should  contact  the  JCAU  for  guidance  and/or  permission  to  forward  an incomplete case file.  If permission is granted, the CITU will notify the applicant of the transmittal and the determination that the case will be adjudicated without the records. 4.4.4.  Missing  Records  -  Adjudication  Impacted:    If  records  cannot  be  located,  and,  in the judgment of the JCAU the adjudication is likely to be impacted, the applicant will be notified  and  asked  if  they  have  copies  of  such  records  and/or  information  as  to  where they may be located.  The applicant will also be advised; 1) that the Board will perform the required review without the records; 2) that the applicant may submit a statement(s) or other evidence about  the content of the missing records and 3) that the applicant  can request  withdrawal  or  suspension  of  the  application  at  this  time  without  prejudice  to  a subsequent  request  to  review.    If  the  applicant  identifies  where  the  records  might  be found, the CITU will attempt to locate and include the records.  If the records cannot be located,  or  additional  attempts  to  find  them  are  unsuccessful,  the  CITU  will  place  the correspondence  and  any  response  statements  submitted  by  the  applicant  in  the  case  file and forward it to the JCAU. 4.5.  Withdrawal and Suspension of Application Processing.  An applicant may withdraw an application, without  prejudice, any time prior  to  final  determination.   An applicant need not justify or explain a request for withdrawal.  Upon receiving a request for case withdrawal the  CITU  will  acknowledge  receipt  and  update  the  case  status  in  the  case  management database.    An  applicant  may  resubmit  a  previously  withdrawn  case.    The  CITU  will  also accept  requests  for  resumption  of  processing  of  cases  previously  withdrawn.    Time  in  a withdrawn status will not be included in computing case processing statistics. 4.6.  Reconsideration.  In  accordance  with  10  USC  1554a(e)(3),  the  decision  of  the Secretary concerned or Designated Decision Authority (DDA) is final.  The PDBR will deny requests for reconsideration of a final decision. 4.7.  Election  of  Forum.  In  accordance  with  10  USC  1554a(c)(4)  and  DoDI  6040.44, Enclosure 2, para 4.d.1, members who file with the PDBR waive their right to petition their Service  Board  for  Correction  of  Military  Records  concerning  the  issues  being  reviewed  by the  PDBR.    To  ensure  proper  implementation  of  this  limitation,  the  CITU  will  provide  the names of PDBR applicants to the Service BCMRs. 6 AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 5.  Case  Adjudication  Procedures  .    Guidelines  and  parameters  on  case  adjudication  are  at DoDI 6040.44, Enclosure 3. 5.1.  Board  Member  Composition.  Each  board  will  consist  of  a  qualified  medical  officer and two additional members.  Board members will be senior military or civilian members in the grade equivalent of O-5 or GS-14 or higher.  If the applicant is a member of a Reserve or Guard  component,  at  least  one  of  the  board  members  will  be  a  member  of  the  Guard  or Reserve. 5.2.  Board Member Responsibilities. 5.2.1.  Board members will review the synopsis of the case and the case file as necessary to be familiar with the facts and circumstances of the injury or disease and the processing history of the disability rating. 5.2.2.  Board  members  will  recuse  themselves  if  they  previously  participated  in  the applicant’s  disability  evaluation  process,  or  if  they  determine  there  is  any  reason  why they cannot fairly and impartially consider the case. 5.2.3.  Board  members  will  avoid  favoring  or  disfavoring  any  applicant  based  upon  the board member’s or applicant’s grade/rank, branch of service, or component. 5.2.4.  Board members will vote solely on the merits of the case without consideration of extraneous matters, such as the amount of money involved, or potential embarrassment to personnel involved in the original rating determination. 5.2.5.  Board  members  will  not  attempt  to  use  grade,  rank  or  position  of  authority  to persuade or influence the vote of any board member.  In accordance with the guidance of DoDI 6040.44, the majority vote of the board is the recommendation of the board. 5.3.  Board  Deliberations.  Normally  only  members  of  the  board  will  be  present  during deliberations.    The  Presiding  Officer  (PO)  may  permit  observers  for  training  purposes  or otherwise in furtherance of the functions of the board. 5.4.  Post-Board Processing. 5.4.1.  The  President  will  review  the  ROP  and  ensure  each  PDBR  review  addresses  the full range of medical  issues and concerns raised  by the applicant  on medical  issues and the interpretation of laws, medical standards, and policies defining a physical disability. 5.4.2.  The President will return case files found to be inadequate or incomplete to the PO for  the  case  with  an  explanation  of  concerns  or  deficiency,  and  with  direction  for additional documentation, consideration or analysis as appropriate. 5.5.  The President will approve and sign each ROP and transmit the case file, ROP and the board  majority’s  recommendation  to  each  Designated  Decision  Authority.    If  the  President does not concur with the recommendation of the board, the President may forward a separate recommendation to the DDA, but will fully explain the rationale for that recommendation. 6.  Quality  Assurance  Program.  The  PDBR  will  administer  Disability  Evaluation  System (DES) quality assurance consistency reviews in accordance with section 4 of Enclosure 3 of DoD Instruction 1332.18, “Disability Evaluation System (DES),” August 5, 2014. AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 7 7.  Statistics,  Performance  Management  and  Reports  .    The  President  will  ensure:  that  the performance  of  the  PDBR  process  is  tracked  using  modern  performance  management  tracking tools; that all statistical analyses are accomplished, and that all required reports are prepared in a timely manner.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Manpower and Reserve Affairs 8 AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 36-30, Entitlements, April 28, 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 DoDI 6040.44, Physical Disability Board of Review (PDBR), July 2, 2015 DoD Instruction 1332.18, “Disability Evaluation System (DES),” August 5, 2014 DoD Manual 1332.18, Volume 3, “Disability Evaluation System (DES) Manual:  Quality Assurance Program,” November 21, 2014. AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, January 12, 2015 Prescribed Forms DD Form 294 Abbreviations and Acronyms AFMAN— Air Force Manual AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive AFRBA— Air Force Review Boards Agency AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System BCMR— Board for Corrections of Military Records CITU— Central Intake Unit DD— Department of Defense (as used on forms) DDA— Designated Decision Authority DoD— Department of Defense DoDI— Department of Defense Instruction DVA— Department of Veterans Affairs IAW— In Accordance With JCAU— Joint Central Adjudication Unit MEB— Medical Evaluation Board OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility PDBR— Physical Disability Board of Review PEB— Physical Evaluation Board PO— Presiding Officer RDS— Records Disposition Schedule AFI36-3035  5 JUNE 2017 9 ROP— Record of Proceedings SAF— Secretary of the Air Force SAF/LLMI— Office of Legislative Liaison, Inquiry Division SAF/PAO— Office of Public Affairs STR— Service Treatment Record USC— United States Code VA—Veterans Administration  