BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-28081 OCTOBER 1998PersonnelOUTSTANDING OFFICER AND ENLISTEDINDIVIDUAL MOBILIZATION AUGMENTEEOF THE YEAR AWARDS (PA)COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ ARPC/DRM  (Mr O. Medina) Certified by: HQ USAF/RE (Brig Gen R. S. Clem)Pages: 4Distribution: FThis instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs.  Thispublication describes the procedures and responsibilities for selecting the outstanding officer and enlistedIndividual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) of the Year, in a range of grades from E-1 through E-8 andO-1 through O-5.  The nominees represent a cross section of career fields and are selected by major com-mands (MAJCOMs), field operating agencies (FOAs), direct reporting units (DRUs), central managerprogram directors, and external agencies.  All nominees for IMA of the Year are evaluated by a specialselection board which convenes in late March of each year at Headquarters Air Reserve Personnel Center(ARPC) to select the overall winners who are honored by the Reserve Officers Association (ROA), attheir National summer conference, as the Outstanding Officer and Enlisted IMA of the Year.  Nomina-tions are sent through the respective IMA program manager (MAJCOM Reserve Affairs) to arrive at HQARPC not later than 1 March.  Individual Programs Division (HQ ARPC/DRM) sends messages approx-imately 3 months in advance to all MAJCOM IMA Program Managers, announcing the application pro-cedure.  This publication does NOT apply to the Air National Guard.This publication includes a requirement to maintain, collect, use, or disseminate information subject to thePrivacy Act of 1974.  Authority:  10 U.S.C. 8012; E.O. 9397, 22 November 1943.1. Reference .  AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards.2. General .  The following procedures apply to all nominees:2.1. Nominating agencies prepare a nomination package to include the following data for each nomi-nee:2.1.1. Description of achievements using AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.  Use bulletformat only, not a flowing narrative.  Limited to two, single-spaced, typewritten pages, using AFForm 1206 for both pages.  Nominations should include specific facts and examples showing theindividuals are exceptional.2AFI 36-2808   1 OCTOBER 19982.1.2. Nominations must include the following areas citing examples that occurred during the cur-rent calendar year.  Entitle each area in bold print using these titles:2.1.2.1. Specific accomplishments in the functional area.2.1.2.2. Procedures or ideas that resulted in benefits to reservists, USAFR, USAF, or JointService Communities.2.1.2.3. Attendance record, job performance, and attitude.2.1.2.4. Educational achievements (mission oriented) and other self-improvement efforts.2.1.2.5. Leadership, professionalism, cultural and social activities that reflect favorably on theUSAFR.2.1.3. Statement to certify nominee meets Air Force weight standards.2.1.4. Biographical data, which includes education, civilian and military experience, membershipin professional societies, awards, and other pertinent information, as applicable, limited to onepage.  Use basic format as prescribed in AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, attachment 2.2.1.5. Full length 8- by 10-inch color photograph (and negative) of nominee in military servicedress uniform.  Must be taken within 12 months of package submission.2.1.6. Endorsement letter from the Program Manager endorsing their nominee(s).2.1.7. Nominating supervisors should coordinate nomination with appropriate commanders toensure that no unfavorable information on the nominee exists prior to submission to the ProgramManager.2.2. Eligibility criteria:2.2.1. Officer nominees limited to the grades of lieutenant colonel and below.  Enlisted nomineesare limited to the grades of senior master sergeant and below.2.2.2. Nominees must be IMAs.2.2.3. Base nominations only on achievements occurring during the current calendar year.  Forexample, the nominee’s achievements for the 1998 program should cite achievements occurringfrom 1 January 1997 through 31 December 1997.2.2.4. MAJCOM Program Manager advises HQ ARPC/DRM if no nomination will be forwarded.2.2.5. Do not submit a previously selected IMA of the Year (overall winner).3. Selection of Outstanding Officer and Enlisted IMAs Assigned to ARPC .  A separate selectionboard is held at ARPC for IMAs assigned to ARPC.  IMAs selected by this board are considered by theboard selecting the ROA Outstanding Officer and Enlisted IMA of the Year (paragraph 5).4. Selection of Outstanding Officer and Enlisted, IMAs Assigned to MAJ COMs, FOAs,  DRUs,Central Manager Programs, and External Agencies.  IMAs from these categories are considered fornomination as the ROA Outstanding Officer and Enlisted IMA of the Year.  By 15 December each year,the Directorate of Customer Assistance (HQ ARPC/DR) requests each MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, andARPC central managers and Selective Service System national headquarters select an officer and/or anenlisted IMA for the current calendar year as its Outstanding Officer and Enlisted IMA of the Year.  ThisAFI 36-2808   1 OCTOBER 19983selection must be made before the deadline for the ROA selection board.  Nominations must be submittedto HQ ARPC/DRM by 1 March.5. ROA Outstanding Officer and Enlisted IMA of the Year Awards :5.1. Selection board.  The selection board members consist of at least three officers in the grade ofcolonel or higher, who make the selection for officer IMA of the year and three chief master sergeants,who make the enlisted selection.  The board representation may include Regular and Reserve statutorytour personnel.  The highest ranking officer serves as board president.5.1.1. HQ ARPC/DRM convenes the selection board as a part of the March Reserve SchoolSelection Board.5.1.2. HQ ARPC/DRM consolidates the list of nominees (MAJCOM level selectees) and pre-pares nomination packages.5.1.3. HQ ARPC/DRM submits request for screened records of nominees at the earliest opportu-nity (7-30 days before the selection board convenes).  Records should be provided to HQ ARPC/DRM 5-workdays before the board convenes.  Officer selection folders are requested from theEvaluation Section (HQ ARPC/DPJC-2); airman field personnel record groups are requested fromthe Records Maintenance Branch (HQ ARPC/DSFR).5.1.4. HQ ARPC/DRM processes officer and enlisted selection briefs, to include points informa-tion for each nominee and includes this information in the nomination package.5.2. Procedures:5.2.1. HQ ARPC/DRM or authorized representative briefs the board members on the OutstandingOfficer and Enlisted IMA of the Year Awards Program.5.2.2. The selection board members evaluate the nominees and selects the Outstanding Officerand Enlisted IMA of the Year.  Final approval of the board selection is made by the ARPC Com-mander.5.2.3. HQ ARPC/DRM advises Public Affairs (HQ ARPC/PA) of selectees and forwards copiesof the selection data, photographs, and negatives for each.  HQ APRC/PA notifies the ROA of theselectees.6. Air Force Recognition Ribbon .  The Air Force Recognition Ribbon is awarded to the OutstandingOfficer and Enlisted IMA of the Year.  DRM sends a letter announcing award recipients to the QualityForce Management Branch (HQ ARPC/DRSP).  On receipt of this letter, HQ ARPC/DRSP updates thepersonnel data system (PDS) and forwards the letter to Customer Support Branch (HQ ARPC/DRSA/B)for filing.  HQ ARPC/DRM processes outstanding officer and enlisted IMA certificates and letters for sig-nature by the ARPC Commander.7. Presentation of Awards .  After board actions are completed HQ ARPC/DRM:7.1. Prepares notification of board results to all nominating activities for both the ARPC and ROAboards.7.2. These individuals are given certificates as the Outstanding Officer or Enlisted IMA of the Year.48. PA :AFI 36-2808   1 OCTOBER 19988.1. Ensures selectees are properly recognized.8.2. Provides public affairs support, including news releases and notification to ROA.RALPH S. CLEM,   Brig General, USAFDeputy to the Chief of Air Force Reserve