BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 35-108 14 JULY 2015 Public Affairs ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC AFFAIRS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil or via the Air Force Portal. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   SAF/PAO  Supersedes:   AFI35-108, 8 Mar 2010 Certified by: SAF/PAO  (Lt Col Christopher Karns) Pages: 13   This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  35-1,  Public  Affairs Management,  and  AFPD  32-70,  Environmental  Quality.  It  provides  guidance  to  establish responsibilities  and  procedures  for  organizing  and  administering  an  effective  and  legally sufficient  Environmental  Public  Affairs  program.  Read  this  instruction  with  AFI  32-7061,  The Environmental  Impact  Analysis  Process,  and  AFI  32-7020,  The  Environmental  Restoration Program. Records Disposition. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)..  Refer  recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route AF Form 847s from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  The  authorities  to  waive wing,  Direct  Reporting  Unit  (DRU),  and  Field  Operating  Agency  (FOA)  requirements  in  this publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,”  “T-1,”  “T-2,”  “T-3”)  number  following  the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority or  to the Publication OPR for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    This  instruction  applies  to  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command (AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG) unless otherwise noted.   2  AFI35-108   14 JULY 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES When a requirement  is  mandated  for  compliance at the Wing  level throughout  this  Instruction, the  requirement  is  tiered,  signifying  the  appropriate  waiver  authority  to  the  requirement  and  is indicated in parentheses (T-0, T-1, T-2, or T-3) following the sentence/paragraph that drives the requirement, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. 1.  Purpose.  The  Air  Force  develops  and  executes  public  engagement  programs  to  build sustained public understanding, trust  and support for Air Force people  and missions. An active public affairs program  is  a cornerstone of the Air Force’s environmental  program  and supports the  intent  of  the  National  Environmental  Policy  Act  (NEPA).  The  focus  of  PA  activities  is  to inform  and  involve  audiences  during  critical  decision-making  windows  in  various  Air  Force Environment,  Safety,  and  Occupational  Health  (ESOH)  programs.  The  objective  of  the  ESOH program  is  to  develop  and  implement  innovative,  integrated,  and  comprehensive  solutions  that enhance the Air Force’s ability to project air, space, and cyberspace power globally. The primary Air  Force  ESOH  priorities  are  to  comply  with  all  ESOH  legal  obligations,  reduce  risk  by ensuring  availability  of  workforce,  natural  and  manmade  resources  by  effectively  managing ESOH  risks,  and  continuously  improving  by  instilling  a  culture  of  continuous  ESOH improvement. This AFI establishes responsibilities, guidance, and procedures for organizing and administering an effective Air Force Environmental PA program. 2.  Objectives.  PA  provides  specific  and  general  support  to  environmental  program  objectives by  communicating  the  Air  Force  commitment  to  public  involvement  (PI)  and  environmental excellence. 3.  Public  Affairs  Roles.  As  a  member  of  the  interdisciplinary  ESOH  management  team,  the Public  Affairs  officer  (PAO)  should  ensure  all  members  of  the  PA  staff  have  appropriate training,  are  kept  current  on  applicable  local,  national,  and  international  Air  Force-related environmental issues, and support PA requirements for release of information to the public. As with any public communication, PA ensures news releases, newspaper display ads, social media material  and  media  and  public  responses  to  queries  are  properly  coordinated  with  the  ESOH management team and, as needed, operations, legal, security, medical, safety, logistics, and other appropriate agencies or organizations before releasing environmental information (T-3). This is implied throughout this instruction where public release of information is discussed. 3.1.  The Air Force Civil Engineer Center Center Public Affairs team is a resource PA staffs can  use  for  reach-back  support  for  all  environmental  issues.  AFCEC/PA  can  provide technical  assistance,  guidance,  products  and  resources,  up including  PA representation, depending on the scope and duration of the environmental action. to  and 3.2.  PA  personnel  should  communicate  all  pertinent  aspects  of  the  environmental  program and  activities  that  have  an  impact  on  the  public  with  the  goal  of  transparency.  PA  will prepare  public  releases  regarding  mishaps  or  negative  impacts  in  coordination  with appropriate agencies, such as safety, environmental, legal, CE and installation commanders. Wing PA should coordinate releases with AFCEC/PA and MAJCOM/PA, who in turn should inform SAF/PAO if information may reflect negatively on the AF or may result in national or international media attention or congressional interest. 3.3.  PA can support environmental programs via community relations activities such as the speaker's  bureau  program,  educational  outreach  to  local  schools,  and  the  installation  tour AFI35-108  14 JULY 2015   3  program. PA should also assist project officers and planners with installation Earth Day and other environmental awareness events and activities. 4.  Public Affairs Responsibilities 4.1.  PA offices shall (requirements): 4.1.1.  Serve as the Air Force point of contact for public and media queries. (T-2). 4.1.2.  Review  all  environmental  documents  that  are  intended  for  release  to  the  public. (T-0). 4.1.3.  Promote  the  Air  Force  environmental  program  through  communicating  success stories  to  external  audiences.  (T-2).  SAF/PAO  is  the  central  point  for  coordinating  and communicating  environmental  successes  to  national  and  international  audiences  and works  with  AFCEC/PA  to  communicate  overarching  environmental  information  for  the programs AFIMSC centrally manages. Installation and Major Command (MAJCOM) PA offices communicate environmental successes to local, state, and regional audiences and forward  local  news  releases  and  news  clippings  to  SAF/PAO  for  consideration  in  the national program. 4.1.4.  Place  newspaper  display  ads  (usually  in  coordination  with  the  installation’s  civil engineer  environmental  office  and  installation  leadership)  and  issue  news  releases  at decision points and other significant milestones in environmental projects. (T-0). 4.2.  PA offices should: 4.2.1.  Prepare communication plans and/or talking point papers, depending on the depth of  information  involved,  that  address  PA  activities,  supporting  PA  products,  timelines, milestones, and legal requirements of environmental activities (T-3). 4.2.2.  Ensure  notification  of  local  community,  political,  health,  and  environmental leaders prior to public release of information, if appropriate (T-3). 4.2.3.  Be  familiar  with  the  content  of  the  U.S.  EPA  "Final  Report  of  the  Federal Facilities  Environmental  Restoration  Dialogue  Committee"  (FFERDC)  and the Environmental Restoration Program. 4.2.4.  Review  and  ensure  all  documents  intended  for  release  to  the  public,  particularly the executive summaries, are written in non-technical language that is understandable to target audiences (T-3). 4.2.5.  Release all public announcements on ESOH issues no later than the first day of the public comment period when the action involves a comment period (T-3). 4.2.6.  Coordinate all public meetings on ESOH issues and serve as the point of contact upon request (T-3). 4.2.7.  In  coordination  with  program  offices,  keep  internal  audiences  informed  through command channels on environmental issues and community concerns (T-3). 4.2.8.  Maintain  a  complete  record  of  all  news  releases  made,  public  meetings  held, queries  answered,  and  media  articles  published  concerning  environmental  programs. Provide  any  needed  support  to  the  applicable  environmental  program  office  to  ensure   4  AFI35-108   14 JULY 2015 they  have  the  Public  Information  documents  and  activities  required  for  their  record-keeping. 4.2.9.  Notify  civic leaders, spokespersons for local  interest  groups, and other interested parties  of  proposed  program  actions  with  advance  coordination  through  the  relevant program  office  (T-3).  This  may  include  inviting  these  stakeholders  to  appropriate meetings, encouraging them to contribute ideas, and informing them of decisions. 4.2.10.  Train  and  maintain  a  list  of  qualified  AF  subject-matter  expert  speakers  to address  public  stakeholders,  and  in  coordination  with  appropriate  unit/environmental office leaders, arrange for community engagements as appropriate and/or required. 4.2.11.  Coordinate  on  the  release  of  any  contacts,  messages,  reports,  documents,  and letters to the public or local legislators in response to inquiries, upon PA’s own initiative, or  as  deemed  necessary  or  advisable  by  the  affected  program  (T-3).  In  each  case,  such release should not occur without the coordination of the affected program office(s) at the appropriate levels. Draft reports or documents are solely for internal review and comment and  generally  are  not  releasable;  advance  copies  of  final  reports  also  generally  are  not releasable. Requesters of the document should be provided the release date and location. 4.2.11.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force Office of Legislative Liaison Programs and Legislation  Division  (SAF/LLP)  will  participate  in  preparation  of  materials  for Congress and will handle congressional distribution. 5.  Environmental  Justice.  Executive Order (EO) 12898 directs each Federal Agency to make achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing, as appropriate, disproportionately  high  and  adverse  human  health  or  environmental  effects  of  its  programs  on minority  populations  and tribal  populations.  The Environmental  Impact  Analysis  Process  (EIAP)  directs  adherence  to  the  EO  for  community involvement activities in areas that may have environmental justice impacts. In working with the environmental team to conduct public outreach activities, PA should help ensure a cross section of the populace is meaningfully involved in the process. low-income  populations, including 6.  Consultation.  PA  should  consult  with  legal  advisors  and  the  ESOH  management  team  to ensure  PA  products,  activities  and  responses,  are  cleared  in  accordance  with  local,  state  and federal environmental laws, regulations, instructions, and otherwise comply with applicable legal or policy requirements. 7.  Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). 7.1.  As mentioned earlier, community involvement is central to the NEPA process. The Air Force fulfills this legal requirement through the EIAP. Therefore, PA should be aware of and involved with the EIAP at the earliest stages of and throughout a proposed action or project. All documents released to the public will be made available in information repositories such as  installation  websites,  public  libraries  and  city  halls  by  the  Environmental  Planning Function.  For  classified  documents  and  per  CFR  Title  32  Section  989.26,  EIAP  "public review and comment" is generally accomplished by representatives who have proper security clearances  from  appropriate  regulatory  agencies;  they  review  and  comment  in  lieu  of  the general public. AFI35-108  14 JULY 2015   5  7.2.  There  are  three  levels  of  EIAP  analysis,  each  of  which  will  result  in  PA  supporting activities: a categorical exclusion or CATEX; Environmental Assessment  (EA) leading to  a Notice  of  Intent  to  prepare  an  Environmental  Impact  Statement  (EIS)  or  a  Finding  of  No Significant Impact (FONSI); and the EIS itself. 7.3.  EIAP PA Responsibilities. PA actions include: 7.3.1.  EIAP  Document  Reviews.  PA  must  participate  in  the  review  of  EAs  and  EISs developed  by  the  proponent  and  the  environmental  team  to  ensure  that  they  address concerns raised by the public. (T-0). 7.3.2.  EIAP Public Notification. Notifying the public on the availability of a FONSI, or with a record of decision for an EIS, must be made via display advertisement (not a legal ad),  and  can  be  one  sixteenth  of  a  page  (approximately  4x5  inches  in  size)  in  a  local, state, or regional general circulation newspaper. (T-0). A news release will also be sent to local  media.  (T-0).  The  display  ad  is  a  paid  newspaper  advertisement,  funded  by  the project's  proponent,  typically  the  Major  Command.  It  should  appear  in  a  prominent section of general circulation newspapers rather than legal columns of papers. If there is a specific  state  requirement  to  use  a  legal  advertisement  for  public  notification  of  NEPA activities, then the legal advertisement should be used in conjunction with, not instead of, a public notice display  advertisement. When determining how much Public  Information is appropriate (how many news releases, display ads, or meetings should be completed), PA should consider the following: 7.3.2.1.  The size of the proposal and the degree to which the public may be affected by the action. 7.3.2.2.  The anticipated level of public interest or controversy. 7.3.2.3.  The size of the area affected (geography and population). 7.3.2.4.  Past  controversy  associated  with  similar  activities  (e.g.,  air  space reconfiguration,  forestry  management  plans  or  timber  cuts,  and  increased  night operations or training). 7.3.2.5.  Whether the proposed action is one of national concern, is unprecedented, or normally requires an EIS. 7.3.2.6.  The degree of any associated environmental controversy. Figure 1.  Public Affairs Actions for EIAP Actions. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION Categorical Exclusion (CATEX) Environmental Assessment (EA) FONSI and Final EA PUBLIC AFFAIRS ACTIVITIES No PA coordination required PA coordination of publicly releasable information, drafting/sending of  news releases, support for briefings and/or public meetings (where applicable, such as serving as interface with community, providing media escort and arranging interviews, and helping develop handouts and/or display materials) PA coordination of publicly releasable   6  AFI35-108   14 JULY 2015 Environmental Impact Statements Notice of Intent (NOI) Scoping Draft EIS Final EIS Record of Decision information, review of display ad, and drafting/sending news release PA coordination includes assistance with preparation of Qs & As; review of NOI published in the Federal Register; review of display advertisement announcing notice of intent (NOI);  support of public meetings (see EA section above for potential activities) and drafting/sending news release PA coordination of publicly releasable information, review of display ad,  support of public scoping meeting(s) (see EA section above for potential activities), and drafting/sending news release PA coordination on information submitted to Federal Register, preparation of Qs & As, review of display ad announcing notice of availability (NOA), support of public hearing(s) (see EA section above for potential activities and Appendix C of 32 C.F.R. Part 989), and drafting/sending news release PA coordination of publicly releasable information, review of display ad, and  drafting/sending news release PA coordination of publicly releasable information, review of display ad, and drafting/sending of news release 8.  Installation  Restoration  Program  Cleanup.  The Installation Restoration Program (IRP) is a  comprehensive  effort  to  identify,  investigate,  evaluate,  and  restore  contaminated  areas (hazardous  disposal  sites,  landfills,  storage  facilities,  and  operational  areas)  on  property  owned by, leased to, or otherwise possessed by Air Force within the United States, including sites where contamination  has  migrated  off  of  such  property.  At  the  installation,  MAJCOM,  and  air  staff levels, the civil engineer (environmental manager) is the OPR for the IRP. The program office is OPR for community involvement activities in support of the IRP with PA support. 8.1.  General  IRP PA Responsibilities. In cases where there may be no PAO assigned to  an installation,  such  as  a  government-owned,  contractor-operated  (GOCO)  facility,  the responsible  command  should  provide  and  ensure  a  PA  specialist  or  appropriate  on-site representative  supports  the  relevant  public  participation  activities.  AFCEC/PA  is  available for  reach-back  support  in  such  instances.  MAJCOMs  should  also  maintain  copies  of documents  and  materials  accomplished  by  the  installation-level  PAO  (or  selected  on-site representative)  in  support  of  the  IRP,  such  as  community  relations  plans  (CRPs), environmental updates, mailing lists, Information Repository indexes, news releases, and fact sheets. As a minimum, PA should: AFI35-108  14 JULY 2015   7  8.1.1.  Coordinate  or  assist  in  the  coordination  of  Restoration  Advisory  Board  (RAB) activities,  including  the  initial  community  interest  assessment  process,  and  advise  the base commander and/or RAB co-chairperson of PA objectives pertaining to development, participation,  and  support  of  the  RAB  and  other  required  Public  Information  activities. The  RAB  is  a  community-based  advisory  body  designed  to  act  as  a  focal  point  for  the exchange  of  information  between  the  Air  Force  and  the  community  regarding environmental restoration (cleanup) activities. The RAB members include representatives from the community; interested groups; local, state, and federal regulatory agencies; and the  Air  Force.  RAB  meetings  are  open  to  the  public.  At  GOCO  facilities,  the  PA specialist  selected  by  the  MAJCOM  or  reach-back  provided  by  AFCEC/PA  will  work with  GOCO personnel,  regulatory agencies for that  region, and  community  members to support  RAB  activities  and  implement  PA  operations  as  appropriate  and  applicable  to that community and situation. 8.1.2.  Establish and maintain liaison with higher headquarters PA offices and concerned base agencies on all  IRP PA and/or community involvement matters. Depending on the action itself or the stage of the IRP, PA may elect to coordinate with other agencies, local governments, or special interest groups on news releases, responses to media queries, or briefings  after  coordinating  with  the  relevant  program  office.  Because  demographic conditions  vary  widely,  PA  should  fully  evaluate  their  local  situations  (to  include stakeholders  surrounding  GOCO  facilities)  to  ensure  all  concerned  entities  are  in  the communication channel. 8.1.3.  Assist  restoration  personnel  in  creating  a  CRP.  CRP  goals  include  identifying issues of possible community concern, providing a basis for communication between the facility  and  the  community,  outlining  how  the  public  can  participate  in  the  decision-making  process,  and  serving  as  a  public  record  of  community  involvement  during  the investigative and remedial programs. 8.1.4.  Review  all  IRP  reports  and  other  environmental  documents  intended  for  public release for effective risk communication language and possible community concerns. 8.1.5.  Develop  products  that  provide  regular  updates  on  IRP  activities.  These  products may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  progress  reports,  fact  sheets,  news  releases,  and public  notices  designed  to  increase  the  community's  understanding  and  involvement  in the IRP. 8.1.6.  Announce  the  availability  of  appropriate  documents  by  display  advertisement when  they  are  placed  in  the  Information  Repository  or  Administrative  Record.  Display advertisements  will  be  placed  in  a  prominent  section  of  the  local  paper  of  general circulation. All public notifications should be a minimum of a 1/16-page ad (some state or  regional  EPA  offices  require  a  larger  advertisement).  More  than  one  event  can  be included  in  the  advertisement.  For  example,  the  same  advertisement  can  discuss  the contents  of  the  proposed  plan,  public  comment  period,  and  public  meeting  information. Ads are funded through the Environmental Restoration Account. 8.1.7.  Support  restoration  personnel  communications  to  ensure  internal/installation audiences  are  fully  informed  of  IRP  progress  through  websites,  social  media, commander's calls, staff meetings, town hall meetings, emails, etc.   8  AFI35-108   14 JULY 2015 8.1.8.  Assist  restoration  personnel  in satisfying PI  guidelines  for  removal actions. Such actions  generally  fall  within  three  categories:  emergency,  time-critical,  or  non-time-critical, which have different PI activities. 8.1.9.  Help program personnel prepare for any public meetings throughout the IRP. Also assist program personnel in obtaining public comments where desired at  other stages of the cleanup process. This could involve helping gather comment cards at public meetings, providing  an  area  on  the  public  website  that  links  to  the  comment  page  or  email,  and sending  out  press  releases  seeking  public  comment  or  including  information  in  related releases about how the public can comment. 8.1.10.  Assist  in  preparing  and  editing  restoration  success  stories  in  support  of  the Defense  Environmental  Program  Annual  Report to  Congress  or  any  other communications  intended  for  release  to  the  public  or  to  agencies  outside  of  DoD.  This may,  at  times,  include  coverage  of  mishaps  or  negative  indications.  PA  must  disclose issues  truthfully  and  with  transparency  IAW  with  PA  guidance.  Public  responses  to potentially negative elements must also be prepared, and coordinated through appropriate channels. 9.  Agency  for  Toxic  Substances  and  Disease  Registry  (ATSDR).  The  ATSDR  was  created by  Congress  to  implement  the  health-related  sections  of  the  Comprehensive  Environmental Response,  Compensation,  and  Liability  Act  (CERCLA),  as  amended.  ATSDR  is  part  of  the Public Health Service within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Its mission is to  prevent  or  mitigate  adverse  human  health  effects  resulting  from  exposure  to  hazardous substances in the environment. 9.1.  Public  Affairs  Responsibilities.  Risk  communication  is  at  the  center  of  all  interactions with  ATSDR.  ATSDR  may  issue  news  releases  regarding  site  visits,  public  meetings,  and public  availability  sessions.  PA  at  the  installation  assists  the  relevant  Air  Force  program offices  and  ATSDR  in  identifying  key  community  contacts,  and  obtaining  a  copy  of  the community  relations  plan.  PA  will  also  assist  in  reviewing  ATSDR-generated  documents, through  the  program  office.  The  installation  medical  group  and/or  Bioenvironmental Engineering  Office  (BEE)  is  the  main  point  of  contact  for  the  Air  Force’s  working relationship with ATSDR. 10.  Community  Involvement  Program  (CIP).  The  CIP  is  a  component  of  the  Community-Based  ESOH  Program  within  SAF/IEE  (the  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for Environment,  Safety,  and  Infrastructure).  SAF/PAO  is  part  of  the  interdisciplinary  team  that develops  and  guides  the  Community-Based  Environmental  Protection  (CBEP)  management policies. 10.1.  CIP Purpose. The purpose of the CIP is to ensure the community has the opportunity to participate in environmental issues that may affect the community or that are of high interest to the community. 10.2.  CIP  PA  Responsibilities.  PA  organizations  should  expand  on  already  established partnerships  with  civilian  leaders  and  organizations  to  include  base-level  organizations, working in coordination with the applicable environmental program offices. 11.  Resource Conservation  and Recovery Act  (RCRA).  RCRA provides a "cradle-to-grave" system  of  rules  regarding  the  generation,  transportation,  treatment,  disposal,  and  clean-up  of AFI35-108  14 JULY 2015   9  hazardous wastes. Many installations have interim status or Part B RCRA permits to treat, store, or  dispose  of  hazardous  waste.  RCRA’s  main  objectives  are  to  protect  human  health  and  the environment,  conserve  energy  and  natural  resources,  and  reduce  or  eliminate  the  generation  of solid and hazardous wastes. 11.1.  Public  Affairs  Responsibilities.  Community  involvement  plays  an  important  role  in RCRA  permitting  and  permit  modifications.  The  permitting  agency,  defined  as  the  U.S. Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  or  state  environmental  regulators,  is  typically responsible  for  community  involvement  activities  during  the  permitting  process.  However, some  public  hearing  and  public  notification  activities  may  be  conducted  at  the  installation. PA  also  plays  a  role  in  communicating  local  RCRA  procedures  to  work  centers  and  base residents to ensure they’re aware of their responsibilities. 12.  Emergency Planning and Community-Right-To-Know Act (EPCRA).  The EPCRA was enacted in  1986 to  help  protect  public health and safety  from  discharges of toxic substances to the  environment  by  increasing  community  awareness  of  chemical  hazards  and  requiring organizations to account for their specified use of toxic substances. 12.1.  Public  Affairs  Responsibilities  for  Toxic  Release  Inventory  (TRI).  While  there  is  no prescribed way to present information to the public on TRI, PA’s role is to notify the public of  TRI  reports  when  they  are  released  and  to  explain  the  significance  of  the  data  in coordination  with  the  applicable  environmental  program  office.  Communication  includes  a public  notice  explaining  EPCRA,  an  announcement  of  availability  of  the  report  and  its location.    Information  accompanying  the  report  should  help  the  public  understand  the chemicals  and their related risks and how the installation  uses the hazardous substance. PA should work closely with bioenvironmental engineers, legal advisors, security advisors, and environmental  managers  to  explain  the  health,  safety,  and  emergency  response  plans implemented to protect the community in the case of a chemical mishap. It is also important to  communicate  to  the  public  that  the  military  has  aggressively  sought  and  implemented pollution prevention measures that have reduced  hazardous waste and is  constantly seeking alternate, less hazardous chemicals. 13  Air  Installation  Compatible  Use  Zones  (AICUZ).  The  goal  of the AICUZ program  is  to promote compatible land-use development around military installations, to promote public health and  safety  in  areas  adjacent  to  installations,  and  to  sustain  the  operational  capabilities  of  the installation.  The  program  identifies  runway  clear  zones,  accident  potential  zones,  and  noise zones, and recommends land-use guidelines for achieving compatible land use in these areas. See Air  Force  Instruction  32-7062,  Air  Installation  Compatible  Use  Zone  Program,  for  program requirements  and  responsibilities  and  AF  Handbook  32-7084,  AICUZ  Program  Manager’s Guide. 13.1.  The  base  community  planner  generally  manages  the  AICUZ  program.  The  planner collects and revalidates data and prepares an AICUZ report or amendment for public release. 13.2.  Public  Affairs  Responsibilities.  Once  approved  by  the  MAJCOM,  the  wing commander makes the decision to release the AICUZ report or amendment. PA should assist base community planners and the base and/or MAJCOM environmental team to prepare for public meetings, and will release relevant information on official AF websites and distribute as appropriate. (T-3).   10  AFI35-108   14 JULY 2015 14.  Noise  Complaints.  PA  should  handle  noise  complaints  or  queries  directly  and  as completely as possible. PA should not refer callers to other bases or commands regardless of the aircraft  origin  or  type.  PA  should  provide  timely,  responsive,  and  factual  answers  to  aircraft noise complaints in order to maintain positive media and community relations. PA should attend relevant installation meetings which are conducive to presenting the complaints, such as the Air Operations Board Meeting. Refer all claims to the installation office of the Staff Judge Advocate.  KATHLEEN A. COOK, Brigadier General, USAF Director of Public Affairs AFI35-108  14 JULY 2015   11  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 32 Code of Federal Regulations 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 1 Jul 2011 Title 42, United States Code 4321-4347 - Public Health and Welfare, 2 Jan 2006 Executive Order 12088, Federal Compliance and Pollution Control Standards, 13 Oct 1978 Executive Order 12856, Federal Compliance with Right-to-Know Laws and Pollution Prevention Requirements, 6 Aug 1993 Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations, 11 Feb 1994 Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), 1980 Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA), 1986 National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 1969 Resource Conservation Recovery Act (RCRA), 1976 Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), 1986 Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER) Directive 9230.0-3C, January 1992 Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12 Apr 2001, as amended through 17 Oct 2008 Annex J of Air Force Program Action Directive 07-13 AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary, 11 Jan 2007 AF Handbook 32-7084, AICUZ Program Manager’s Guide, 1 Mar 1999 AFI 32-7020, The Environmental Restoration Program, 7 Feb 2001 AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 12 Mar 2003 AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 Jul 1994 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFPD—Air Force policy directive AICUZ—Air Installation Compatible Use Zones ATSDR—Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry   12  AFI35-108   14 JULY 2015 CATEX—categorical exclusion CBEP—Community-Based Environmental Protection CERCLA—Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act CIP—Community Involvement Program CONUS—continental United States CRP—community relations plan DOD—Department of Defense DODD—Department of Defense directive DODI—Department of Defense instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit EA—Environmental Assessment EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process EIS—Environmental Impact Statement EO—Executive Order EPA—Environmental Protection Agency EPCRA—Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (SARA Title III) ESOH—Environment, Safety and Occupational Health ESOHCAMP—Environmental  Safety  and  Occupational  Health  Compliance  Assessment  and Management Program FFERDC—Federal Facilities Environmental Restoration Dialogue Committee FOA—field operating agency FONSI—Finding of No Significant Impact GOCO—government-owned/contractor-operated IAW—in accordance with IRP—Installation Restoration Program MAJCOM—major command NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act NOA—notice of availability NOI—notice of intent OPR—office of primary responsibility OSWER—Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response PA—Public Affairs, preliminary assessment PAO—Public Affairs Office, Public Affairs officer AFI35-108  14 JULY 2015   13  PI—public involvement RAB—Restoration Advisory Board RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SARA—Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act SG—Surgeon General TRI—toxic release inventory  