BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-322 4 JUNE 2012 Incorporating Change 2, 25 May 2017 Certified Current 25 May 2017 Communications and Information  RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/CIO A6XA  Supersedes:  AFI33-322, 7 October 2003  Certified by: SAF/CIO A6X  (Ms. Bao-Anh Trinh, GS-15) Pages: 22    This  Air  Force  instruction  (AFI)  implements  DoDD  5015.2,  DoD  Records  Management Program,    DoDD  5100.3,  Support  of  the  Headquarters  of  Combatant  and  Subordinate  Joint Commands,  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  33-3,  Information  Management,  and  DoD Standard  5015.02  (DoD  5015.02-STD),  Design  Criteria  Standard  for  Electronic  Records Management  Software  Applications.  It  establishes  roles  and  assigns  responsibilities  for  the  Air Force  Records  Management  Program.  This  instruction  applies  to  all  Air  Force  personnel  to include  active  duty,  guard,  and  reserve  military,  civilian,  foreign  nationals  employed  by  the Department of the Air Force and Air Force contractor personnel. Contractors who perform roles associated  with  records  management,  defined  in  this  instruction,  must  fully  comply  with  the duties for their assigned role. Performance work statements for contracts awarded to perform any of the records management roles in this instruction will reflect this requirement. This instruction sets  forth  policies  regarding  penalties  associated  with  unauthorized  concealment,  removal, mutilation,  obliteration  or  destruction  of  records  without  proper  authority  in  paragraph  1.2  that are  applicable  to  civilian  and  military  personnel,  including  the  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air National Guard. Failure by military personnel to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of  this  directive  in  paragraph  1.2,  is  also  a  violation  of  Article  92,  Uniform  Code  of  Military Justice.  Violations  by  Title  32  ANG  military  personnel  may  subject  members  to  prosecution under their respective State Military Code or result in administrative disciplinary action without regard  to  otherwise  applicable  criminal  or  civil  sanctions  for  violations  of  related  laws. Violations  may  also  result  in  administrative  disciplinary  action  for  civilian  and  contractor employee  personnel.  In  the  case  of  a  conflict,  this  AFI  takes  precedence  over  any  Air  Force publication  that  addresses  Air  Force  records.  Send  recommended  changes  or  comments  to 2 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 Cyberspace  Capabilities  and  Compliance  (SAF/CIO  A6X),  1800  Air  Force  Pentagon, Washington  DC  20330-1800,  through  appropriate  channels,  using  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.  Ensure  that  all  records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management  System  (AFRIMS).    The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer, commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply  endorsement  by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  interim  change  revises  AFI  33-322  by  (1)  standardizing  record  management  roles  and responsibilities,  (2)  updating  roles  for  Commanders,  BRMs,  and  AFRO,  (3)  adding  the  Senior Agency Official for Records Management role, (4) replacing file plan with inventory of records and  (5)  removing  COR,  FARM,  and  RC  roles  from  AFI.    A  margin  bar  (|)  indicates  changed material.  NOTE:  For purposes of this AFI, “CRM” includes Agency Records Managers. 1.  General.  Air Force records serve a crucial role in supporting the mission of the Air Force by ensuring  information  is  available  to  support  effective  decision  making  through  authoritative information  and  to  protect  the  legal  rights  of  the  Air  Force,  our  employees,  and  the  public.   Records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, provide a record of past  events,  and  are  the  basis  for  future  actions.    This  publication  defines  the  roles  and responsibilities  to  effectively  manage  Air  Force  records.    This  publication  establishes  the  Air Force program for Records Management (RM). 1.1.  Air  Force  units  at  all  levels  have  a  requirement  to  document  their  organization’s, functions,  policies,  procedures,  and  activities.    This  documentation  serves  as  the  official record  of  the  Air  Force.    These  records  must  be  preserved  by  implementing  effective  life-cycle  management  procedures  and  must  be  managed  systematically  to  ensure  they  are complete, accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible.  Every Air Force activity must manage its records to comply with legal accountability requirements. 1.2.  Personnel  employed  by  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,  shall  not  conceal,  remove, mutilate,  obliterate  or  destroy  records  without  proper  authority.  Unauthorized  concealment, removal,  mutilation,  obliteration  or  destruction  of  records,  or  any  attempt  to  do  so,  is  a violation  of  Title  18,  U.S.C.,  Section  2071  and  may  be  punished  by  up  to  three  years confinement and a fine.  Failure to obey the prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to follow the prohibitions  in  this  paragraph  may  also  result  in  administrative  disciplinary  action  under applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions. (T-0). AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 3 1.3.  The  key  to  an  effective  Records  Management  Program  is  the  identification,  storage, search,  retrieval,  protection,  and  disposition  of  records  per  the  AF  RDS  located  in  the  AF Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    Ownership  on  the  part  of  every Airman coupled with Commander’s involvement is essential. 2.  Definition  of  Records.  Consistent  with  the  definition  of  “records”  used  in  the  Presidential and  Federal  Records  Act  Amendments  of  2014,  which  updated  the  definition  in  44  U.S.C.  § 3301, records “includes all recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics, made or received by a Federal agency under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as  evidence  of  the  organization,  functions,  policies,  decisions,  procedures,  operations,  or  other activities of the United States Government or because of the informational value of data in them and  does  not  include  library  and  museum  material  made  or  acquired  and  preserved  solely  for reference or exhibition purposes; or duplicate copies of records preserved only for convenience.” 3.  Roles  and  Responsibilities.  The  Air  Force  Chief  Information  Officer  (SAF/CIO  A6)  has overall  responsibility  for  the  Air  Force  Records  Management  Program.  The  Senior  Agency Official  (SAO)  for  Records  Management,  appointed  by  the  SAF/CIO  A6  has  overall  agency-wide  responsibility  for  records  management  and  is  responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  Air  Force efficiently  and  appropriately  complies  with  all  applicable  records  management  statues, regulations,  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  (NARA)  policies,  the  requirements of  U.S.  Office  of  Management  and  Budget  (OMB)  Memorandum  M-12-18,  Managing Government Records; OMB Circular No. A-130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource; and  DoDI  5015.02,  DoD  Records  Management  Program.  The  Air  Force  Records  Officer (AFRO)  develops  policy  and  guidance  and  administers  procedures  necessary  to  implement  the Air  Force  Records  Management  Program.    The  AFRO  also  administers  the  program  for  the SAF/CIO  A6,  represents  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  on  records  management  issues,  and oversees the legal requirements for the management of Air Force records. 3.1.  Dedicated roles within the Air Force Records Management Program include the AFRO, Command  and  Agency  Records  Managers  (CRM/ARM)  and  Base  Records  Managers (BRM). 4.  Commanders.  Commanders  and  civilian  directors  at  all  levels  must  implement  the  AF Records Management Program for their organizations IAW this instruction.  They should have a working  knowledge  of  the  Federal  Records  Act,  E-Government  Act  including  privacy  aspects, the Paperwork Reduction Act, and the Federal Information Quality Act.  They are responsible for the physical and legal custody of all records within their organization to include: (T-1) 4.1.  Ensure  organizations  create  mission-related  records,  permanently  preserve  valuable records,  promptly  stage  eligible  records,  and  dispose  temporary  records  and  accession permanent  records  according  to  the  AF  RDS.    Determine  records  access  and  enforces  RM compliance. 4.2.  MAJCOMs serviced by the centralized CRM function at the Air Force Space Command Cyberspace  Support  Squadron  (AFSPC  CYSS)  shall  be  responsible  for  working  with  the CRM  to  obtain  resolution  of  records  management  issues  at  organizations  within  their respective commands. (T-1) 4 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 4.3.  Commanders  and  civilian  directors  of  field  operating  agencies  (FOA)  and  Direct Reporting  Units  (DRU)  shall  ensure  an  ARM  has  sufficient  access  to  records  management systems  to  manage  the  records  management  program  within  their  agency.  Exceptions  are authorized  for  organizations  within  the  National  Capital  Region  that  receive  records management support through the HQ USAF Records Manager. (T-1) 4.4.  Installation Commanders and Air Force Joint Base Wing Commanders shall ensure that the  role  of  BRM  is  filled,  and  that  this  role  is  appropriately  reflected  in  the  job  or  position description.  At  Joint  Bases  where  the  Air  Force  is  not  the  Supporting  Component,  the Supported  Component  Commander  shall  appoint  a  BRM  to  manage  Supported  Component records.  The  minimum  recommended  grade  for  the  primary  BRM  is  a  GS-09  or  MSgt  (7-level). (T-1) 4.5.  Should  leverage  the  Commander’s  Support  Staff  to  assist  in  the  accomplishment  and oversight  of  their  organization’s  records  management  program.    Installation  Commanders shall  work  directly  with  the  BRM  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  their  installation’s  records management  program,  and  shall  ensure  the  BRM  is  appropriately  aligned  to  accomplish wing-level tasks. (T-1) 4.6.  Ensure  AF  records  management  data  calls,  record  searches,  litigation  holds  and  other requests for information are conducted and completed per AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and as defined requirements in AFRIMS. (T-1) 4.7.  Ensure  proper  management  of  classified  records;  to  include  records  classified  as sensitive  compartmental  information  (SCI),  and  that  all  activities  possessing  classified records  comply  with  AF  records  management  data  calls  and  records  searches.    As  needed, Commanders  will  ensure  appropriate  personnel,  including  the  BRM,  have  the  necessary access to exercise oversight. (T-1) 4.8.  Installation Commander shall maintain a base staging facility  for temporary storage of records  pending  destruction  or  transfer  to  a  Federal  Records  Center  (FRC)  including centralized  storage  of  electronically  stored  inactive  records.    The  base  staging  facility  shall comply with 36 CFR 1234, Facility Standards for Records Storage Facilities.  If base staging facility  is  unable  to  comply  with  the  standards,  Commanders  shall  ensure  risk  mitigation procedures are in place to preserve the records from damage, loss, unauthorized access  and destruction,  and  to  work  with  the  BRM  to  submit  a  risk  mitigation  plan  annually  to  the Command  Records  Manager  for  coordination,  who  will  make  the  plan  available  and continually accessible for the AFRO.  (T-1) NOTE: If the base maintains a facility with over 25,000 cubic feet of records, it is required to comply with 36 CFR 1234.  If the base maintains a facility with under 25,000 cubic feet of records, it is required to comply with 36 CFR 1234.10 – 1234.14.  (T-0) 4.9.  Ensure eligible records are promptly and properly transferred to the base staging area or the  designated  FRC  IAW  AFI  33-364,  Records  Disposition  –  Procedures  and Responsibilities. 4.10.  (Added)  All Commanders shall work with the BRM and SJA or other legal counsel to develop and document a records management plan that implements the AF RM program for their  organization  within  60  days  of  taking  command.    The  plan  will  be  submitted  through the BRM to the Command Records Manager for approval. For FOA/DRUs, the plan will be AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 5 submitted to AFRO for approval.  The plan will be made available and continually accessible for the AFRO.  Once approved, the plan should be available and accessible to organizational members.    Upon  request,  the  plan  should  also  be  available  and  accessible  to  the  respective IG, legal, and other authorized stakeholders.  Documentation is not only intended as guidance for the organization but also to provide a record of procedures in the event of a litigation hold or deposition. The plan shall be in memorandum format and signed by the Commander.  See Appendix A for sample plan template. (T-1): 4.10.1.  (Added)  Structure:  Describe the structure of the RM process; including specific roles  and  responsibilities  of  unit  members.    This  will  include  identifying  primary  and alternates for each responsibility, if so designated. 4.10.2.  (Added)  Records Lifecycle:  Describe how records will be managed throughout their  lifecycle,  including  paper  and  electronic,  such  as  how  they  will  be  created (electronic  by  default),  where  they  will  be  stored/preserved/backed  up  (IT  systems, shared drives, SharePoint, Records Management Application), how they will be protected (especially those with Personally Identifiable Information (PII), which should have data-at-rest encryption in addition to access controls and passwords), how "Privacy Act system of  records"  can  be  identified  to  the  BRM  and  Base  privacy  manager,  how  essential records  (formerly  known  as  vital  records)  are  identified  and  incorporated  into  the  local continuity of operations plan, how inactive records will be staged (in particular, how will users  send/notify  medium-to-long  term  retention  hardcopy  records  to  staging),  and  how the records will be disposed IAW AF RDS and AFI 33-364 (on base shredding, private vendor with chain-of-custody of records to be disposed). 4.10.3.  (Added)  Training/Orientation/Awareness:    Describe  what  RM  guidance  is provided to local users (e.g., lost records prevention and reporting, records searches, and in/out-processing responsibilities with respect to official records). 4.10.4.  (Added)  Inspection/Audit/Self-Assessment:  Describe  how  and  when  the  local RM processes will be inspected/audited internally. 4.10.5.  (Added)  Records  Searches:    Describe  how  the  organization/unit  will  conduct non-FOIA records searches when tasked to do so including who the Commander directs to  execute  searching  the  affected  organizations,  how  the  BRM  disseminates  the  records searches from AFRIMS to targeted local organizations, e.g., organizational emails or task management workflow. 4.11.  (Added)  Shall  establish,  review,  and  maintain  an  inventory  of  records  in  AFRIMS consisting of but not limited to description of the record, location of the record, and records disposition. (T-1)  Ensures inventory disposition and folder titles are replicated within the e-record storage area.  Do not include subfolders. 4.12.  (Added)  Ensure  records  containing  Privacy  Act,  PII,  sensitive  or  classified information  are  appropriately  marked,  controlled,  and  maintained  from  creation  through disposition. 4.13.  (Added)  Shall ensure that actual or potential unlawful or inadvertent removal, change, or destruction of Air Force records are reported to and investigated by the BRM. (T-1) 6 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 4.14.  (Added)  Identify  essential  records  and  establish  a  restoration  and  disaster  recovery plan  for  paper  and  electronic  records.    Ensure  identified  essential  records  are  appropriately marked,  have  valid  back-ups  appropriately  stored,  and  are  included  in  the  base,  agency  or MAJCOM emergency preparedness plans. (T-1) 4.15.  (Added)  Installation  Commander,  especially  at  OCONUS  locations,  shall  document and  execute  an  emergency  destruction  plan  for  records,  especially  classified  records,  in  the event the installation faces imminent hostile action.  The first course of action should be to procure  transportation  vehicles,  especially  aircraft,  to  transfer  records  to  a  suitable  location outside  of  hostile  action.    Reference  AFI  33-364,  Records  Disposition  -  Procedures  and Responsibilities,  regarding  destruction  of  records  pending  imminent  hostile  action,  which should be done as a last resort. (T-1) 4.16.  (Added)  Ensure  support  agreements,  memorandums  of  understanding,  contracts,  or similar documents reflect the records management requirements of the organization. 4.17.  (Added)  Complete  records  management  training  module  on  ADLS  (currently  the Chief of the Office of Records and Functional Area Records Manager courses) and any other required training. Shall ensure all personnel accomplish training on an annual basis to meet requirements  directed  in  DoDI  5015.02,  DoD  Records  Management  Program  and  NARA Bulletin 2017-01, Agency Records Management Training Requirements. (T-0) 5.  Users.  Defined as all military, civilians, foreign nationals employed by the Department of the Air Force and contractors: 5.1.  All users have the responsibility to ensure that information within their care is available to  support  effective  decisions,  meet  legal  and  regulatory  data  calls,  document  official business, and to pass on custodianship when appropriate.  Users must protect record content and  comply  with  Privacy  Act,  PII,  sensitive  or  classified  information,  and  other  policy  and legal  requirements.   (T-0).  Users  must  store  and  manage  records  consistent  with organizational requirements and procedures. (T-1) 5.2.  Create  and  declare  records  that  sufficiently  document  the  function,  organization, administration, policies and procedures.  File records IAW office procedures. 5.3.  Comply  with  organization  guidance  regarding  records  preservation  or  transfer  upon notification of retirement, separation, or change of assignment. 5.4.  When tasked with a litigation hold and/or search, comply with AFMAN 33-363 and any additional direction to search all information including paper, electronic, and non-electronic within  assigned  workspace,  on  respective  government-provided  desktop/laptop  computer, government-provided  mobile  devices  and  personal  government  e-mail  accounts  .psts/  and files in time to meet assigned suspense.  The search will include all information, regardless of classification  or  format.    All  information  in  the  custody,  possession,  or  control  of  the  Air Force  is  subject  to  the  discovery  process  and  may  contain  potentially  relevant  information.  Follow  organization  guidance  when  the  search  has  been  completed  and  if  responsive information is found.  Any potentially relevant information shall immediately be suspended from additional modification or destruction. (T-1) 5.5.  Must  inform  Commander  of  any  actual  or  potential  unlawful  or  inadvertent  removal, change, or destruction of Air Force records. (T-1) AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 7 5.6.  Must  distinguish  records  from  non-record  materials  and  maintain  personal  papers separately. 5.7.  (Added)  Protect  files and folders containing sensitive, Privacy  Act  data prior to  filing by using available access control (passwords, group permissions, etc.).  For files with PII, use data-at-rest encryption IAW OMB Circular A-130. 5.8.  (Added)  File  electronic  and  paper  records  promptly  IAW  AF  RDS.    Regardless  of media,  the  draft  and  official  records  must  be  segregated  and  filed,  ensuring  records  are available and accessible. Destroy the draft records as needed. (T-1) 5.9.  (Added)  Avoid  using  laptops  and  removable  storage  devices  for  long-term  record storage.  Ensure records created on laptops and/or removable storage devices are transferred to  an  approved  storage  as  soon  as  possible  via  approved  means;  deployed  personnel  will follow procedures established at their deployed location. (T-1) 5.10.  (Added)  Create  e-records  by  default.    E-records  will  be  kept  within  the  designated location  on  the  organizational  shared  drive,  SharePoint  e-document  library,  or  other authorized electronic record keeping system. (T-1) 5.11.  (Added)  Save and file attachments to e-mails with the original e-mail. 5.12.  (Added)  Complete training on an annual basis. 6.  Records  Professionals.  Records professionals must protect record content and comply with FOUO, sensitive, Privacy Act, and other policy and legal requirements. (T-0). 6.1.  Air Force Records Officer. 6.1.1.  Works  with  the  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  (NARA)  and General  Services  Administration  (GSA)  using  the  guidelines  from  36  Code  of  Federal Regulations  (CFR),  Parks,  Forest,  and  Public  Property  and  41  CFR,  Public  Contracts and Property Management. 6.1.2.  Develops  and  issues  policies  governing  life-cycle  management  of  Air  Force records. 6.1.3.  Works  with  the  Archivist  of  the  United  States  in  applying  standards,  rules,  and techniques  to  improve  managing  records  of  any  media  type,  to  improve  how  the  Air Force identifies, maintains, and protects permanently valuable records, and separates and disposes of records of temporary value in accordance with Titles 36 and 41 CFR. 6.1.4.  Certifies  to  the  Archivist  of  the  United  States  that  all  temporary  records  meeting their  retention  period  are  no  longer  of  value  to  the  Air  Force  and  shall  be  disposed  for Agency, HAF and ANG units.  Serves as the approving official for the transfer of records with  a  permanent  retention  and  the  Transfer  Approving  Official  in  NARA’s  Electronic Records  Archives  (ERA)  system  for  the  approval  and  transfer  of  permanent  electronic Air Force records to the Archivist. 6.1.5.  Reports to the Archivist of the United States potential unlawful removal, change, or destruction of Air Force records. 6.1.6.  Establishes  guidance  and  processes  to  ensure  the  Air  Force  properly  creates  and preserves  records  that  document  all  aspects  of  its  business  to  protect  the  rights  of  the 8 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 United States Government and of persons directly affected by Air Force actions.  Ensures that all records including e-mail, electronic documents, databases, and those in automated information  systems,  Web  2.0  technology  or  social  media,  generated  by  processes  and prescribed  in  Air  Force  publications  are  scheduled.    Ensures  that  system  developers include  official  records  management  requirements  in  automated  information  systems development and redesign. 6.1.7.  Applies  DOD  records  management  functional  and  system  requirements  to  all electronic record-keeping systems. 6.1.8.  Obtains  written  approval  or  concurrence  from  the  Comptroller  General  of  the United States to dispose of records of claims and demands by or against the United States Government or accounts affecting the United States Government. 6.1.9.  Negotiates  agreements  to  transfer  Air  Force  records  to  NARA,  Federal  Records Centers  (FRC),  other  Federal  agencies,  or  private  organizations  and  implements agreements to store, service, dispose of, access, or use records. 6.1.10.  Publishes  an  RDS  authorizing  disposal  of  organization  records  and  directing prompt  and  proper  retention  of  temporary  records  and  retirement  of  permanent  records.  Serves  as  the  Certifying  Official  in  ERA  for  submission  of  an  AF  Records  Schedule  to NARA for approval. 6.1.11.  Conducts or directs evaluations of the Air Force Records Management Program during  staff  visits  or  Inspector  General  (IG)  team  visits,  ensuring  compliance  with Federal, DOD, and Air Force requirements.  This may include staff visits to Command or Agency Records Managers as needed or upon request. 6.1.12.  Issues guidance on authenticating records. 6.1.13.  Directs  CRMs/ARMs/BRMs  in  coordination  with  identified  Commanders  to conduct non-FOIA record searches upon receipt of a written request from a valid legal or Federal authority. 6.1.14.  Maintains  awareness  of  developments  in  the  field  of  records  technology  and systems, and potential application to the Air Force’s record systems. 6.1.15.  Advises  the  DOD  Records  Officer  of  any  matters  pertaining  to  records management that may have DOD-wide implications. 6.1.16.  Advises personnel on recovery or reconstruction of records. 6.1.17.  Ensures  functional  series  records  dispositions  are  current.  Initiates  a  functional review of the AF RDS, on a periodic basis, to ensure the AF RDS remains current. Any required  additions,  changes,  or  deletions  will  be  processed  following  the  procedures  in AFMAN 33-363 and AFI 33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities. (T-1) 6.1.18.  Establishes initial and annual role based training requirements. 6.1.19.  Establishes  metrics  and  determines  frequency  of  reporting  to  assess  areas  of compliance  and  evaluate  program  resource,  training  requirements,  and  inventory  of records.    AFRIMS  will  be  the  primary  data  source  for  metrics  associated  with  program management. (T-1) AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 9 6.1.20.  Ensures records generated by AF directives and instructions are scheduled. 6.1.21.  Serves as the Transfer Approving Official to approve records Transfer Requests in ERA. 6.1.22.  Assigns appropriate roles in ERA to accession permanent records and to submit proposed record retentions to NARA for approval. 6.1.23.  Serves  as  the  primary  AF  Administrator  of  NARA’s  Archives  and  Records Centers Information System (ARCIS). 6.1.24.  Unless  delegated,  serves  as  the  approval  authority  for  accounts  in  ARCIS  for Agencies, HAF, and ANG units. 6.1.25.  Serves  as  the  decision  authority  for  individuals  seeking  access  to  AF  records staged at any FRC. 6.2.  (Deleted) 6.2.1.  (Deleted) 6.2.2.  (Deleted) 6.2.3.  (Deleted) 6.2.4.  (Deleted) 6.2.5.  (Deleted) 6.2.6.  (Deleted) 6.2.7.  (Deleted) 6.2.8.  (Deleted) 6.2.9.  (Deleted) 6.2.10.  (Deleted) 6.3.  Command Records Managers (CRM) and Agency Records Managers (ARM). 6.3.1.  Oversees  the  records  program  within  their  commands  or  agencies  as  specified  in Federal laws, NARA guidelines and applicable Air Force 33-series publications. 6.3.2.  HQ  MAJCOM/FOA/DRU  internal  record-keeping  programs  will  comply  with host  base  records  management  program  guidelines  for  storage,  staging,  retrieval,  and training. 6.3.3.  Establishes  and  manages  a  training  program  for  newly  appointed  BRMs  and  for continuing training and education. 6.3.4.  Enforces  the  federal  mandate  of  the  E-Government  Act  of  2002,  requiring electronic  processes  be  applied  to  records  created  and  maintained  electronically.    If records are to be maintained electronically, ensure BRMs provide authoritative guidance pertaining  to  legal  recognition  and  validity  before  transfer  (i.e.  scanning  documents)  to electronic form. This includes protecting the scanned paper records from destruction until such authoritative guidance is provided. 10 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 6.3.5.  Reviews  MAJCOM/Agency  directives  and  forms  before  publication  to  ensure compliance with records management directives. Ensures records generated by command or  agency  directives  and  information  collections  (forms)  are  scheduled.  When  a command or FOA is designated as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for an Air Force  publication,  the  CRM  or  ARM  will  ensure  records  generated  by  the  prescribed processes are scheduled. Send documentation to support this action to the AFRO. (T-1). 6.3.6.  Provides assistance to OPR in submitting and ensuring requests for new, updated, or deleted records retention recommendations are properly coordinated using an AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation or its equivalent. 6.3.7.  Reviews  documentation  used  to  survey  electronic  data  and  records  in  AF information systems on AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory, or AFRO-approved equivalent,  e.g.,  IT  Investment  Portfolio  System  (ITIPS)  (replacing  Enterprise Information  Technology  Data  Repository  -  EITDR).      The  CRM  and  ARM  validate proposals  on  information  systems  managed  in  their  respective  MAJCOM,  FOA,  DRU, and affected unified and specified commands’ portfolios. 6.3.8.  Reviews  and  makes  recommendations  to  the  AFRO  for  their  respective MAJCOM,  FOA,  DRU,  and  affected  unified  and  specified  commands  for  pre-accessioning and accessioning permanent electronic records in NARA's ERA system. 6.3.9.  Works with the IG to: 6.3.9.1.  Identify areas requiring special review by command IG teams. 6.3.9.2.  Provide  compliance  evaluation  criteria  and  standards  for  functional  area inspectors. 6.3.9.3.  Establishes  cross  feed  procedures  to  ensure  command  units  are  aware  of records management evaluations contained in IG reports.  Send a copy of procedures to the AFRO. (T-1) 6.3.10.  Provides guidance to tenants and BRMs on local support agreementsfor program assistance, training, electronic records storage (where applicable), staff visits, staging, or records shipping services. 6.3.11.  Directs  BRM  to  conduct  non-FOIA  records  management  data  calls  and  records searches upon receipt of an official request from the AFRO. 6.3.12.  Ensures  BRMs  complete  and  report  responses  to  non-FOIA  records  searches  in AFRIMS before closing out the base’s response in AFRIMS. (T-1) 6.3.13.  Oversees the implementation of the AFRIMS according to AFMAN 33-363. 6.3.14.  Develops meaningful metrics in the areas of inventories of records, staging, and training in AFRIMS.  The AFRO will establish and determine frequency of reports.  (T-1) 6.3.15.  Accomplishes  initial  training  upon  appointment  and  maintains  proficiency  by completing annual role-based training. 6.3.16.  (Deleted) 6.3.17.  (Deleted) AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 11 6.3.18.  (Deleted) 6.3.19.  (Deleted) 6.3.20.  Cyberspace Support Squadron (CYSS) Command Records Management (CRM) 6.3.20.1.  Serves  as  the  approval  authority  for  account  requests  at  commands  CYSS supports in NARA’s Archives and Records Centers Information System (ARCIS). 6.3.20.2.  Serves  as  the  approval  authority  for  NARA  Form  13001,  Notice  of Eligibility for Disposal, for commands CYSS supports and are eligible for disposal. 6.3.20.3.  Advises  AFRO  on  grammatical/spelling  errors,  out-of-date  references  and incorrect mailing addresses to the AF RDS and makes appropriate corrections to the AF RDS upon AFRO approval. 6.3.20.4.  Conducts  research  and  aligns  current  tables  and  rules  from  AF  RDS  into proposed  bucket  schedule  for  the  AF.    Serves  as  records  scheduler  in  ERA  for submission of an AF records schedule to NARA for approval. 6.3.20.5.  Develops  role-based  training  for  CRMs/ARMs,  and  BRMs.    Courses  will be reviewed periodically to ensure content is relevant and appropriate actions taken, if any. (T-1) 6.3.20.6.  Serves as the Transferring Official in ERA for commands CYSS supports. 6.4.  Base  Records  Manager  (BRM).  The  BRM  administers  the  installation  records management program.  Recommended minimum grade for the primary is GS-09 or MSgt (7-level),  depending  upon  span  of  control.    His  or  her  duties  fall  into  three  major  areas: providing assistance, managing staging areas, and training. 6.4.1.  Providing Assistance: 6.4.1.1.  Provides  direct  support  to  Wing/Installation  Commander  and  implements and oversees the AF Records Management in coordination with the unit Commanders across the base. 6.4.1.2.  Makes  recommendations  on  records  storage  issues  prior  to  supporting Communications Squadron or base submitting request to purchase additional storage space.    Provides  guidance  on  using  document  imaging  systems  for  records  storage and authorized disposition of paper-based records following imaging. 6.4.1.3.  Provides guidance on local procedures and requirements on record-keeping. Performs  the  role  of  Electronic  Transfer  Staff  for  the  purpose  of  packaging  and transmitting electronic records to ERA via an electronic transfer method. 6.4.1.4.  Advises on methods of electronic storage and document imaging of records and makes recommendations to improve processes. 6.4.1.5.  Implements AFRIMS according to AFMAN 33-363. 6.4.1.6.  Creates/modifies AFRIMS account for the Commander(s) - who will receive the  records  search  tasker  or  provide  inputs  for  the  inventory  of  records.    The Commander  may  be  granted  FARM  accounts  within  AFRIMS.    Disable  inactive accounts after one year. 12 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 6.4.1.7.  Investigates  incidences  of  lost  records  and  unauthorized  destruction  of records. 6.4.1.7.1.  Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost/destroyed records. 6.4.1.7.2.  Makes  recommendations  to  management  on  preventing  future  records loss. 6.4.1.7.3.  Provides a report as prescribed by AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities. 6.4.1.8.  Reviews base directives and  forms  before publication to  ensure  compliance with records management directives. 6.4.1.9.  Provides  instruction  to  the  OPR  on  submitting  AF  Form  525,  or  its equivalent,  recommending new, modified, or deletion of a records schedule. 6.4.1.10.  Reviews  documentation  used  to  survey  electronic  data  and  records  in  AF information systems, (AF Form 1341 or its equivalent) and proposed disposition (AF Form 525 or its equivalent) of system from OPRs and Program Managers.  Submits documentation and review to the CRM or ARM.  Information systems which contain Privacy  Act  System  of  Records,  coordinate  with  the  program  manager  to  ensure disposition  of  data  in  the  survey  and  schedule  is  consistent  with  the  records disposition in the System of Records Notice. 6.4.1.11.  Serves  as  the  base  POC  for  ARCIS  used  for  transactions  with  FRCs.  Unless  otherwise  approved  by  the  AFRO,  a  base  will  have  two  ARCIS  account holders, one primary and one alternate. 6.4.1.12.  Acts  as  the  base  POC  for  all  non-FOIA  records  searches  by  coordinating with the Commander, tracking the search and closing it in AFRIMS. 6.4.1.13.  Conducts  self-assessment  of  base  records  management  program  at  least every 24 months. Self-assessment shall be signed by the base commander and a copy of the report of self-assessment provided to the CRM/ARM as appropriate. (T-1). 6.4.1.14.  Executes litigation holds IAW AFMAN 33-363 and coordinates other non-FOIA  records  management  data  calls  with  the  affected  Unit  Commanders  upon receipt of an official request from the CRM or as directed by AFRO. 6.4.1.15.  Ensures all tasked organizations complete and report responses to litigation holds  or  other  non-FOIA  record  searches  IAW  AFMAN  33-363  before  closing  out base response in AFRIMS.  (T-1) 6.4.1.16.  Requests appropriate network permissions for personnel as needed. 6.4.1.17.  Coordinates on the local base disaster and recovery plan to account for the essential records program.  At a minimum, the plan will include a description of how essential records are protected and recovered during a disaster or link to the essential records plan. (T-1)   AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 13 6.4.1.18.  Reviews all support agreements for records management issues. 6.4.2.  Managing Staging Areas: 6.4.2.1.  Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction or  transfer  to  a  FRC  including  centralized  storage  of  electronically  stored  inactive records. 6.4.2.2.  Provides  records  staging  service  for  Air  Force  tenant  activities,  or  other DOD tenants as provided for in a support agreement. 6.4.2.3.  Maintains  custody  of  and  accountability records,  and accountability  for  records  transferred  to  other  agencies  by  maintaining  the  Standard Form  (SF)  135,  Records  Transmittal  and  Receipt,  in  AFRIMS.    For  FRCs,  use ARCIS. for  staged 6.4.2.4.  Conducts  an  annual  inventory  of  records  in  base  staging  area  and  validates holdings staged to FRC(s).  (T-1). 6.4.2.5.  Makes  the  determination  as  to  whether  records  have  met  criteria  for disposition.  Where required, the BRM negotiates contracts for the disposal of paper-based records stored in the staging area. 6.4.2.6.  Shall  ensure  essential  records  maintained  in  the  staging  area  are  readily identified  and  properly  documented  in  AFRIMS  as  to  their  location  in  the  staging area. (T-1) 6.4.3.  Training: 6.4.3.1.  Accomplishes initial training upon appointment and maintains proficiency by completing the annual role-based training (T-1). 6.4.3.2.  Ensures  that  Commanders  receive  training  regarding  their  role  within  the base’s Records Management Program. (T-1) 6.4.3.3.  Provides orientation/refresher training to users including command-unique or local  operating  procedures  or  requirements,  particularly  where  electronic  storage processes are implemented. 6.5.  (Deleted) 6.5.1.  (Deleted) 6.5.2.  (Deleted) 6.5.3.  (Deleted) 6.5.4.  (Deleted) 6.5.5.  (Deleted) 6.5.6.  (Deleted) 6.5.7.  (Deleted) 6.5.8.  (Deleted) 6.5.9.  (Deleted) 14 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 6.5.10.  (Deleted) 6.5.11.  (Deleted) 6.6.  (Deleted) 6.6.1.  (Deleted) 6.6.2.  (Deleted) 6.6.3.  (Deleted) 6.6.4.  (Deleted) 6.6.5.  (Deleted) 6.6.6.  (Deleted) 6.6.7.  (Deleted) 6.6.8.  (Deleted) 6.6.9.  (Deleted) 7.  Portfolio Manager (PfM) of IT investments. 7.1.  Communicates  AF  Records  Office  guidance  and  direction  to  his  or  her  IT program/project  managers  and  others  responsible  for  IT  portfolio  management  data collection and maintenance.  Partners with them to collect and manage data to support the Air Force  Records  Management  process  in  addition  to  Air  Force  IT  portfolio  management  and other  processes  in  AFI  33-141,  Air  Force  Information  Technology  Portfolio  Management and IT Investment Review. 7.2.  Informs the IT program/project managers’ functional process owner of non-compliance. 8.  Program Manager (PM) of an IT investment. 8.1.  Ensures  records  or  records  data  in  IT  investments  under  his  or  her  purview  are compliant with records management requirements per AFMAN 33-363. 8.1.1.  Ensures accuracy of records management requirements in ITIPS. 8.1.2.  Prepares  AF  Form  1341  or  its  AFRO-approved  equivalent,  to  survey  the  IT investment’s records data and system characteristics as required by AFMAN 33-363 and 36  CFR  1236.26,  What  actions  must  agencies  take  to  maintain  electronic  information systems? (T-0). 8.1.3.  Proposes  a  customized  records  disposition  using  an  AF  Form  525,  or  its  AFRO-approved  equivalent,  IAWAFMAN  33-363  and  AFI  33-364  if  an  approved,  applicable records  disposition  does  not  exist  or  if  an  existing  one  cannot  be  executed  in  the  IT investment.  Coordinates the AF Form 525 with relevant stakeholders before submission to Records Professionals and the AF Records Officer for review and approval. 8.1.4.  Ensures  compliance  with  approved  disposition  for  IT  investment  records  or records data during normal operations and responds to authorized suspensions. AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 15 the  records  or  records  data 8.1.5.  Ensures is  not  prematurely  disposed  upon decommissioning  of  the  IT  investment.  Maintains  required  hardware  and  software  to access records or records data until approved disposition is met. (T-0). 9.  Publication and Form Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). 9.1.  A publication OPR ensures that records created as a result of processes prescribed in his or her publication has a NARA approved RDS. 9.2.  A form OPR ensures the form has a NARA approved RDS. 9.3.  If an approved disposition does not exist in the AF RDS, the publication or form OPR shall propose a customized records disposition using an AF Form 525, or its AFRO-approved equivalent,  IAWAFI 33-364 and AFMAN 33-363.  The OPR shall coordinate the AF Form 525  with  relevant  stakeholders  before  submission  to  records  professionals  and  the  AF Records Officer for review and approval.  WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lt Gen, USAF Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer 16 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ATTACHMENT 1 References (Added)  NARA Bulletin 2017-01, Agency Records Management Training Requirements. (Added)  OMB Circular No. A-130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource OMB Memorandum M-12-18, Managing Government Records Directive Public Law 113-187, Presidential and Federal Records Act Amendments of 2014 Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management Facility Standards DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003 (certified current as of November 20, 2007) DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000 (certified current November 21, 2003 DoD 5015.02-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software Applications, 25 April 2007 DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands, November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000, Change 2, December 5, 2003 (certified current March 24, 2004) AFPD 33-3,  Information Management, 8 Sep 2011 AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment Review, 23 Dec 2008 AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records, 3 Aug 2011 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006 AFI 33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 8 Apr 2009 Prescribed Forms AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation, 1 Jul 1999 AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory, 1 Jan 1995 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009 Standard Form 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, July 1985 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 17 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF CIO—Air Force Chief Information Officer AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AOR—Area of Responsibility ARCIS—Archives and Records Centers Information System ARM—Agency Records Manager CFR—Code of Federal Regulations COR—Chief of the Office of Record CRM—Command Records Manager CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information DOD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instructions DRU—Direct Reporting Unit EITDR—Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository ERA—Electronic Records Archives FARM—Functional Area Records Manager FOA—Field Operating Agency FRC—Federal Records Centers GSA—General Services Administration HAF—Headquarters Air Force IAW—In Accordance With IG—Inspector General IMT—Information Management Tool ISO—Information System Owner IT—Information Technology MAJCOM—Major Command NARA—National Archives and Records Administration OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense 18 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 PfM—Portfolio Manager PM—Program Manager RC—Records Custodian RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RM—Records Managers SAV—Staff Assistance Visit SCIF—Sensitive Compartmental Information Facility TFAT—Total Force Awareness Training U.S.C—United States Code Terms Agency  Records  Manager  (ARM)—Records  managers  at  FOAs,  DRUs,  and  Combatant Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent. Archives  and  Records  Centers  Information  System  (ARCIS)—the  web-based  IT  system  of the  Federal  Records  Centers  (FRCs)  of  the  National  Archives  and  Records  Administration  and online portal through which the Air Force can do business with the FRCs Area  of  Responsibility (AOR)—The geographical area associated with a combatant command within which a combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations. Certifying  Official—Electronic  Records  Archives  role  assigned  to  the  individual  who  will certify that the  agency is officially submitting a  Records Schedule to  NARA for approval.  The paper equivalent of this role is the person who signs in Box 6 of the paper Request for Records Disposition Authority (SF 115). Chief  of  the  Office  of  Record  (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records are created, received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records.  COR  duties  may  be  delegated,  as  appropriate,  to  someone  with  adequate  authority  and  a thorough knowledge of the office’s mission and the records created by the office. Command  Records  Manager  (CRM)—Records  managers  responsible  for    management  and oversight of MAJCOM records programs centrally located at the AFNIC, with the exception of the  ANG CRM. Disposable—Temporary  and  approved  by  NARA  for  disposal,  either  immediately  or  after  a specified retention period. Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer to a staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken with inactive records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or transfer to the National Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234). Disposition  Instructions—Precise  instructions  in  the  Air  Force  RDS  located  in  AFRIMS, specifying the date or event for cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records. Electronic  Records  Archives—ERA is a technology system designed to  preserve and manage NARA’s  electronic  records  and  to  manage  the  lifecycle  of  paper  records  and  other  holdings, AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 19 including  support  for  records  retention  schedules  and  the  accessioning  process  for  all  Federal records. Electronic Transfer Staff—A role in ERA that is used to package and transmit electronic files to ERA via an electronic transfer method to the Transfer Approving Official. File—An  organized  collection  of  related  data,  usually  arranged  into  logical  records  that  are stored together and treated as a unit. Inventory  of  Record—(1)  Documentation  designating  the  physical  location(s)  where  an agency’s  files  will  be  maintained,  the  specific  types  of  files,  and  the  organizational  element(s) having  custodial  responsibility.  (2)  Documentation  containing  the  identifying  number,  title  or description, and disposition authority of files held in an office. Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)—Any  headquarters,  agency,  or  activity  having primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or problem. Office of Record—An office within an organization, defined by its mission or function, that is responsible for the creation and management of records that sufficiently document  its function, organization,  administration,  policies  and  procedures.    Recommend  geographically  separated offices be identified as individual offices of record.  At Headquarters level, the span of control for an office of record should be no larger than a staff agency or branch; at Squadron level, the span of control for an office of record should be at or below flight level. Personal  papers—Include  family  and  personal  correspondence  and  materials  documenting professional  activities  and  outside  business  or  political  pursuits.  These  materials  belong  to  the individual,  and  the  Government  exerts  no  control  over  them.    Personal  papers  shall  be  clearly designated as such and kept separate from Air Force records. Program  Manager  (PM)—The individual specifically designated to be responsible for the life cycle management of a system or end item. The PM is vested with full authority, responsibility, and resources to execute and support an approved Air Force program. The PM is accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance reporting to the Milestone Decision Authority (DoDD 5000.01,  The  Defense  Acquisition  System).  Throughout  this  document  the  term  “Program Manager” is used for consistency with DOD policy and documentation. Air Force organizations may use “System Program Manager”  as an equivalent to the DoDD 5000.01 “PM” term. (AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecyle Management). Recorded information—Includes all traditional forms of records, regardless of physical form or characteristics, including information created, manipulated, communicated, or stored in digital or electronic form. Records—Includes  all  recorded  information,  regardless  of  form  or  characteristics,  made  or received by a Federal agency under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as  evidence  of  the  organization,  functions,  policies,  decisions,  procedures,  operations,  or  other activities of the United States Government or because of the informational value of data in them; and  does  not  include  library  and  museum  material  made  or  acquired  and  preserved  solely  for reference or exhibition purposes; or duplicate copies of records preserved only for convenience. 20 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 Records Custodian—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal record keeping program, having guardianship and control of records. Records  Professional—Individual  whose  area  of  expertise  advances  beyond  introductory records  management.    The  term  records  professional  encompasses  AFRO,  CRM,  ARM, Commander, and BRM.  RP skills extend beyond familiarity to intermediate or advanced records management. Records Scheduler—Role in ERA assigned to users who prepare records retention schedules for submission to the Certifying Official for approval. Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a Federal Records Center (FRC). Routine  Use—A disclosure of records to individuals or agencies outside DOD for a use that is compatible with the purpose for which the Air Force created the records Scheduled—Having  final  retention  approved  by  NARA.  Scheduling  provides  mandatory instructions for what to do with records (and nonrecord materials) no longer needed for current Government business. Transfer Approving Official—A role in ERA assigned to users who have authority to approve Transfer  Requests  and  the  Legal  Transfer  Instruments  on  behalf  of  the  agency.  The  paper equivalent  of  this  role  is  the  person  who  signs  in  Box  2A  of  the  paper  Agreement  to  Transfer Records to the National Archives of the United States (SF 258). Transferring Official—A role in ERA assigned to users who will create Transfer Requests and submit them to the Transfer Approving Official for approval. Users—All Air Force personnel to include military active duty, reserve, guard, civilian, foreign nationals employed by the Department of the Air Force and Air Force contractor employees. Working  Documents/Drafts—Documentary  materials  in  any  media  or  format  that  have  not been signed or officially released; can be altered and are discoverable in response to litigation or FOIA requests.  AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 21 Attachment 2  (Added) APPENDIX A Sample Plan Template MEMORANDUM FOR Command Records Manager FROM:   [Base X] Installation or Unit Commander SUBJECT:  Base or Organizational Records Management Plan for [Base X]  1.  Purpose.  This memorandum documents the [Base X] plan to implement the AF Records Management Program IAW AFI33-322, Records Management Program, AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities.  This memorandum defines the roles and responsibilities to effectively manage Air Force records.  This instruction establishes the records management program for all subordinate units. 2.  Roles and Responsibilities.  (SAMPLE TEXT – Complete paragraph two only if different than roles and responsibilities outlined in AFI 33-322) Commander and/or their designated POC(s) if one is designatedwill be responsible for communication between their respective unit and the BRM.  Depending on the size and scope of organization, some units could have multiple POCs with AFRIMS accounts to ensure efficient RM process.  This instruction supplements the roles and responsibilities in AFI33-322 with the following. 2.1. Commander and/or Designated POC(s). (SAMPLE TEXT) Manages the records management program within their unit(s).   2.1.1. Ensures that all e-records are backed-up and will validate restore capability periodically and kept for a specified minimum and a maximum number of days based on Communication Squadron guidance. 2.1.2. Decreases demand for a base staging area, explore the digitization of legacy hardcopy records with medium-term and long-term retentions (records with a permanent retention requires a "Notification" to NARA before scanning).  2.1.3. Provides leadership support to ensure Air Force records management data calls and records searches are conducted and completed in a timely manner. AFRIMS will be used by the designated POCs to receive directions and report findings for record searches. 2.1.4. Establishes and reviews the inventory of records (formerly file plan) of records at least annually.  AFRIMS file plan module will be used by the designated POC to create inventory. 3.  Records Lifecycle:  (SAMPLE TEXT) The base will use the R: Drive as the central location for official electronic stored information with the corresponding inventories of records entered into AFRIMS.  Legacy hardcopy records will be stored within an office location that allows for easy retrieval of information and will continue to be digitized in the base’s strategic RM plan.  Inactive hardcopy records will be transferred to the base staging area.  New records will be created electronically.  Records containing personal identifiable information will be protected IAW instructions from AFI 33-332, Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. All records created will be managed IAW AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed IAW with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in AFRIMS and AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities. The BRM will work with the Commander or designated POCs to ensure records data in IT systems and databases are compliant with AF Records Management, including the disposition of the records data. 4.  Training/Orientation/Awareness.  (SAMPLE TEXT) Commander and/or designated POC(s), if designated, will receive RM training conducted by the BRM.  Commander and/or designated POC(s) provide training to the members of their unit.  All training materials will be posted by the BRM on the Base SharePoint Site.  Individuals in/out-processing from the base will coordinate with their supervisor to ensure official records are maintained in the office IAW AFI33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities.   5.  Inspections/Audits.  (SAMPLE TEXT) The BRM will create a standard checklist for units to use to annually assess their RM process.  Checklist will be filed in the unit, unless requested by the BRM.  The BRM, Unit Commander, or member designated by the Unit Commander will ensure the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) is being utilized as an ongoing assessment to facilitate effective monitoring of a unit’s RM processes. 6.  Record Searches.  (SAMPLE TEXT) Upon receipt of a litigation hold or other records search request, the BRM will forward a copy of the request to the Installation Commander and the relevant Unit Commander or POC for execution IAW AFMAN 33-363.    22 AFI33-322  4 JUNE 2012 6.1. Tasked Commander and/or designated POC(s) shall search all paper, non-electronic (e.g., microfiche), and electronically stored information within their area of responsibility to include official records in file plans, active and inactive records, external electronic media, desktops/laptops, and any other information systems used by the organization to process records and identified on the file plan, to include those transferred for short and long term storage in base staging or offsite at a FRC which the records professionals reasonably expects to contain information responsive to the search request and Litigation Hold.  6.2. Tasked Commander and/or designated POC(s) shall identify any proprietary/organizational information systems that may contain relevant information and direct the respective Program Manager for each system to conduct a search using the criteria identified in the search. 6.3. Tasked Commander and/or designated POC(s) shall notify all unit personnel who may have relevant information of the search request and ensure all tasked personnel perform thorough searches and provide appropriate responses. Along with the unit Knowledge Operators, shall assist personnel with preserving and collecting information, including ESI. 6.4. Each tasked Commander and/or designated POC, Program Manager and tasked user shall complete a Litigation Hold Worksheet certifying the search efforts undertaken and the search results.  6.5. Tasked Commander and/or designated POC(s) shall forward all Litigation Hold Worksheets and relevant documents to the BRM upon completion of the search.  All searches shall be completed within 30 days of receipt unless otherwise noted in the search request. 7.  RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this memorandum. INSERT ANY OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION TO INCLUDE LOCAL PROCEDURES AS APPROPRIATE.                                                                         SIGNATURE BLOCK  INSTALLATION / UNIT COMMANDER 