 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2603 18 SEPTEMBER 2017 Personnel AIR FORCE BOARD FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS (AFBCMR)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/MRBC  Supersedes:  AFI 36-2603, 5 March 2012       Pages:  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Daniel R. Sitterly, SES) Pages: 17    This  instruction  implements  DoDD  1332.41,  Boards  for  Correction  of  Military  Records  and Discharge Review Boards, and AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development.  It relates to procedures for correction of military records to remedy error or injustice and not to the Air Force Discharge Review  Board  (AFDRB).    It  tells  how  to  apply  for  correction  of  military  records  and  how  the AFBCMR (the Board)  considers applications.   It implements  the Board’s statutory  authority to act  on applications.   In collaboration with  the  Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE), the Director  of  the  Air  National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  and  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower, Personnel,  and  Services  (HQ  USAF/A1),  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Manpower and  Reserve  Affairs)  (SAF/MR)  develops  Air  Force  Board  For  Correction  of  Military  Records guidance.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and disposed of  IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in  the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  This publication applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve (USAFR).  The authorities to waive FOA level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the compliance statement.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of  2 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.  This instruction may not be supplemented. This  instruction  directs  collecting  and  maintaining  information  subject  to  the  Privacy  Act  of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C) § 1034 and 1552.  System of Records notice F036 SAFCB A, Air Force Correction Board Records, applies. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include  defining  the  authority  of  the  Director,  AFRBA  to  appoint  AFBCMR  panel  members; expanding the authority of the Executive Director of the AFBCMR to return applications without action  when  all  available  avenues  of  administrative  relief  have  not  been  exhausted,  he  or  she determines  the  application  is  clearly  frivolous,  or  the  remedy  that  is  requested  is  beyond  the authority of the Board; defines a proper applicant; describes the Director’s authority to reject a request  for  reconsideration  of  an  application  when  an  applicant  fails  to  provide  new  and/or relevant  evidence  that  was  not  reasonably  discoverable  when  the  original  application  was submitted; stipulates a three-year period from the date of an original AFBCMR decision in which to  request  a  one-time  reconsideration  and  incorporates  authority  of  the  Board  to  reconsider  an application upon its own motion; incorporates modification of the definition of persons eligible to  apply  for relief to  the Board in  accordance with  guidance issued by the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 1552(g); incorporates guidance on the liberal consideration of  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (or  similar  diagnosis)  on  requests  to  upgrade  other  than honorable  characterizations  of  service  (e.g.,  undesirable,  under  other  than  honorable  conditions (UOTHC),  bad  conduct  discharge  (BCD),  dishonorable  discharge  (DD),  dismissal,  etc.); incorporates statutory requirements in accordance 10 U.S.C. § 1552(g), as modified by the Fiscal Year  (FY)  2015  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  (NDAA)  §  521,  that  mandate  that  any medical opinion issued to the Board with respect to a member or former member of the armed forces  who  was  diagnosed  while  serving  in  the  armed  forces  as  experiencing  a  mental  health disorder shall include the opinion of a clinical psychologist or psychiatrist if the request relates to a mental health disorder; incorporates the statutory requirements in accordance with the FY 2015 NDAA  §  547  that  mandate  a  confidential  review  process  for  applicants  who  claim  to  be  the victim of sexual assault; prescribes procedures under which a request for correction of a military record may be made if the request is made on behalf of a group of members or former members of the armed forces who were similarly harmed by the same error or injustice in accordance with the  provisions  of  the  10  U.S.C.  §  1552(b),  as  modified  by  the  FY  2016  NDAA  §  521; incorporates  SAF/MR  policy  directing  that  senior  leader  (general  officer  and  senior  executive service)  contact  with  the  Air  Force  Review  Boards  Agency  (AFRBA)  be  routed  through  the Director,  AFRBA,  or  Principal  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Manpower  and Reserve  Affairs;  incorporates  policy  requiring  advisory  opinions  pertaining  to  high-level decorations  (Silver  Star  or  higher),  promotion  issues,  return  to  flying  status,  or  containing allegations  of  reprisal  to  be  signed  by  at  least  a  colonel  or  GS-15  within  the  organization providing the advisory opinion.    AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 3 1.  Roles and Responsibilities. 1.1.  Secretary of the Air Force (SAF).  In accordance with 10 U.S.C. § 1552, Correction of military records: claims incident thereto, the SAF is authorized to correct any military record of  the  Department  when  the  SAF  considers  it  necessary  to  correct  an  error  or  remove  an injustice.  Such corrections shall be made by the Secretary acting through boards of civilians in the executive part of the Department. 1.2.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Manpower  and  Reserve  Affairs (SAF/MR).  SAF/MR exercises the authority under 10 U.S.C. § 1552 on behalf of the SAF.  SAF/MR has further delegated this authority to the Director of the Air Force Review Boards Agency (AFRBA). 1.3.  Director,  AFRBA:  The Director, AFRBA appoints all members of the Board.  Board members must be members of the Senior Executive Service (SES) or hold the grade of GS-15.    No  one  may  be  appointed  a  member  of  the  Board  within  five  years  after  relief  from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of an armed force, except by individual waiver approved by SAF/MR.  This five-year waiting period will also apply to a reserve  component  commissioned  officer,  who  after  twenty  years  of  active  service,  retired under 10 U.S.C. § 8911, 10 U.S.C. § 3911, or 10 U.S.C. § 6323. 1.4.  Executive  Director,  Air  Force  Board  for  Correction  of  Military  Records (AFBCMR).  Administer  and  oversee  the  operation  of  the  AFBCMR  and  develop  and publish  policy,  procedures,  and  evaluation  standards  related  to  the  correction  of  records process. 1.5.  The AFBCMR operates within the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force according to 10  U.S.C.  §  1552  and  DoDD  1332.41,  Boards  for  Correction  of  Military Records  (BCMR) and Discharge Review Boards (DRBs).  The Board consists of civilians in the executive part of the Department  of the Air Force who serve  at  the pleasure of the SAF.  Three members constitute a quorum of the Board. 2.  Board Responsibilities. 2.1.  Considering  Applications.  The  Board  considers  all  applications  properly  brought before  it.    In  appropriate  cases,  it  recommends  correction  of  military  records  to  remove  an error or injustice. 2.2.  Recommending Action.  When the Board determines an applicant has been the victim of  reprisal  in  violation  of  10  U.S.C.  §  1034,  or  AFPD  90-3,  Inspector  General,  the Complaints  Resolution  Program,  it  may  recommend  to  the  SAF  that  disciplinary  or administrative action be taken against those responsible for the reprisal. 2.3.  Deciding  Cases.  The Board normally decides cases on the written evidence contained in  the  record.    It  is  not  an  investigative  body;  therefore,  the  applicant  bears  the  burden  of providing evidence of an error or injustice.  However, the Board may, in its discretion, hold a hearing  or  call  for  additional  evidence  or  opinions  in  any  case.    Applicants  may  request  a hearing; however the decision to grant a hearing is at the sole discretion of the Board.    4 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 3.  Application Procedures. 3.1.  Who May Apply.  The following persons/entities are eligible to apply to the Board for corrections of Air Force records (“Applicants”): 3.1.1.  Current or former members of the United States Air Force, the Air National Guard (ANG), the Air Force Reserve (USAFR), or their predecessor organizations; 3.1.2.  Current  or  former  members  of  other  armed  services  for  whom  the  United  States Air Force maintains a record; 3.1.3.  The heirs or legal representatives of persons identified in 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 above; 3.1.4.  Dependents,  spouses,  or  former  spouses  of  persons  identified  in  3.1.1  and  3.1.2 above; and 3.1.5.  Employees  or  former  employees  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,  except  in regard to civilian employment matters. 3.1.6.  Apart  from  applicants  qualified  under  3.1.3,  no  applicant  is  eligible  to  obtain  a correction of another person's record, unless the application pertains to a group of current or  former  members  submitted  under  the  provisions  of  10  U.S.C.  §  1552(b),  as implemented  by  paragraph  3.10  below,  that  authorize  the  SAF  to  make  such  an application.  However, this restriction in no way limits the authority of Air Force offices to make administrative corrections in cases of manifest error. 3.2.  Obtaining Forms.  Applicants may obtain a DD Form 149, Application for Correction of  Military  Record  Under  the  Provisions  of  10  U.S.C.  §  1552, and Air Force Pamphlet  36-2607,  Applicants’  Guide  to  the  Air  Force  Board  for  Correction  of  Military  Records (AFBCMR), from any of the following sources: the 3.2.1.  From the  Department  of  Defense  Publishing  website, http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/forms/eforms/dd0149.pdf  (DD  Form  149),  or  Air Force e-publishing website, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ (AFPAM 36-2607). internet  at 3.2.2.  Any Air Force personnel or publications distribution office. 3.2.3.  Most veterans’ service organizations. 3.2.4.  The  Air  Force  Review  Boards  Office,  SAF/CMO,  550  C  Street  West,  Suite  40, Joint Base San Antonio-Randolph, TX 78150-4742. 3.2.5.  The  AFBCMR,  1500  West  Perimeter  Road,  Joint  Base  Andrews  Naval  Air Facility Washington, MD 20762. 3.3.  Preparation.  Before applying, applicants should: 3.3.1.  Review Air Force Pamphlet 36-2607, Applicants’ Guide to the AFBCMR. 3.3.2.  Discuss  their  concerns  with  a  Total  Force  Service  Center  representative,  finance office,  or  other  appropriate  officials  who  can  refer  applicants  to  available  avenues  of administrative  relief  (e.g.,  performance  reports  –  Evaluation  Reports  Appeals  Board (ERAB), fitness test results – Fitness Assessment Appeals Board (FAAB), debts incurred while on active duty – Remissions Board, etc.) that do not require referral to the Board.  AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 5 3.3.3.  Exhaust  all  other  available  administrative  remedies;  otherwise,  the  Executive Director of the AFBCMR should administratively close the  case, without prejudice, and return it without action. 3.4.  Submitting the Application.  Applicants should complete all applicable sections of the DD Form 149, including at least: 3.4.1.  The name of the applicant or, when the applicant is an heir or legal representative, the  name  of  the  person  whose  record  the  applicant  wishes  the  Board  to  correct.    For group applications, see paragraph 3.10. 3.4.2.  That person’s social security number or military service number. 3.4.3.  The  applicant’s  current  mailing  address,  e-mail  address,  and  contact  number(s).  E-mail,  when  available,  will  be  the  primary  means  of  communication  between  the AFBCMR staff and the applicant. 3.4.4.  The  error  or  injustice  and  specific  correction  to  the  military  records  required  to remedy the alleged error or injustice.  The applicant has the burden of providing evidence in support of their claim they are the victim of an error or injustice. 3.4.5.  Legal  proof  of  the  applicant’s  status  as  heir  or  legal  representative  if  requesting correction of another person’s records. 3.4.6.  The applicant's ink signature accompanying any paper or facsimile submission.  A scanned or facsimile copy of the DD Form 149 is considered a legitimate application and may  be  transmitted  via  electronic  means.    The  completion  of  an  electronic  fillable  DD Form  149,  found  online,  will  require  the  use  of  a  legitimate  Department  of  Defense Common  Access  Card  (CAC)  or  identity  verified  electronic  or  digital  signature.    If  the applicant signs the form electronically without a verified signature, then he/she must also submit a scan of a notarized letter for the record stating the time and date the application was signed along with the submission.  The person who is requesting a correction of his or  her  record  must  sign  the  application.    If  the  individual  whose  record  is  at  issue  is deceased or cannot sign due to incompetency, the application may be signed by an heir or legal  representative.    Proof  of  death,  incompetency,  or  power  of  attorney  must accompany the application. 3.4.7.  Applicants should mail the signed DD Form 149 and any supporting documents to the  Air  Force  address  on  the  back  of  the  form  if  submitting  in  paper.    To  expedite processing,  applicants  may  elect  to  file  electronically.    Electronic  filing  options  include (1) email of submission to include the scanned or fillable DD Form 149 and supporting documents  to  saf.mrbr.tier1@us.af.mil,  or  (2)  upload  the  scanned  or  fillable submissions  through  a  secure  web-based  intake  portal,  similar  to  what  is  available  via MyPers, if/when made available. 3.5.  Meeting Time Limits.  Applicants must file an application within 3years after the error or injustice was discovered, or, with due diligence, should have been discovered.  Timeliness is not measured strictly from the date of the action/event the applicant alleges makes then the victim of an error or injustice, but  is  measured from the date of when the error or injustice was  discovered  or  should  have  been  discovered  by  the  applicant  with  reasonable  diligence.   6 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 In accordance with federal law, time on active duty is not included in the 3-year period.  An application filed later is untimely and may be denied by the Board on that basis. 3.5.1.  The Board may excuse untimely filing in the interest of justice. 3.5.2.  If  the  application  is  untimely  filed,  the  applicant  should  explain  why  the application was untimely filed and why it would be in the interest of justice for the Board to waive the statute of limitations. 3.6.  Stay  of  Other  Proceedings.  Applying  to  the  AFBCMR  does  not  stay  other proceedings. 3.7.  Representation  by  Counsel.  Applicants  may  be  represented  by  counsel,  at  their  own expense. 3.7.1.  The  term  “counsel”  includes  members  in  good  standing  of  the  bar  of  any  state; accredited representatives of veteran or service organizations recognized under 38 U.S.C. §  5902;  and  other  persons  determined  by  the  Executive  Director  of  the  Board  to  be competent to represent the interests of the applicant. 3.7.2.  See DoDD 7050.06, Military Whistleblower Protection and AFI 90-301, Inspector General  Complaints  Resolution,  for  special  provisions  in  cases  processed  under  10 U.S.C. § 1034. 3.8.  Application format.  Applicants must use the DD Form 149.  Along with the DD Form 149, applicants or counsel may submit briefs in support of applications. 3.8.1.  Briefs may not exceed 25 double-spaced pages; must be typed or computer-printed on one side of each page, with the left margin justified, with not more than 12 characters per inch and no less than one-inch margins on all sides; and must be assembled without staples  or  bindings  to  permit  easy  reproduction  and  digital  scanning.    Electronic submissions are encouraged. 3.8.2.  The  Board  staff  will  return  an  illegible  application  or  brief  and  administratively close  the  case  without  action.    Although  administrative  closure  in  no  way  precludes  an applicant  from  re-applying  at  a  later  date,  it  does  not  suspend  the  three-year  statute  of limitations to file an application. 3.8.3.  The Board staff will return electronic applications or briefs that cannot be opened on receipt and will close the case without prejudice, as above. 3.8.4.  Rebuttals to advisory opinions must not exceed 10 pages and must meet the other requirements for briefs. 3.8.5.  Supporting  documentary  evidence  may  exceed  the  25-page  limit,  but  must  meet certain  other  requirements  for  briefs,  to  include  legibility,  the  requirement  to  be assembled without staples or bindings to  permit  easy reproduction and digital scanning, and be printed on one side of each page. 3.8.6.  In  rare,  complex  cases,  the  Executive  Director  of  the  Board  may  waive  the limitations on the length of briefs.    AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 7 3.9.  Withdrawing  Applications.  Applicants  may  withdraw  an  application  at  any  time before the Board’s decision.  Withdrawal does not stay the 3-year time limit. 3.10.  Group  Applications.  In  accordance  with  10  U.S.C.  §  1552(b),  the  SAF  may  file  a request  for  correction  of  a  military  record  if  the  request  is  made  on  behalf  of  a  group  of members  or  former  members  of  the  Regular  Air  Force,  Air  National  Guard,  Air  Force Reserve  (or  predecessor  organizations)  who  were  similarly  harmed  by  the  same  error  or injustice.    Such  a  request  must  be  staffed  to  the  SAF  for  approval  by  the  applicable MAJCOM,  FOA,  or  HAF  functional  2-letter  office  prior  to  submission  to  the  AFBCMR.  The staff package must be staffed in accordance with HAF staffing procedures.  No specified form is required.  At a minimum, coordination with SAF/GC and SAF/MR is required before staffing the request to SAF/OS, which must include the following: 3.10.1.  A list indicating each individual’s name and social security number. 3.10.2.  A  comprehensive  summary  of  the  facts  and  circumstance  surrounding  the purported error or injustice perpetrated against the group of named individuals supporting a  determination  that  the  group  of  named  individuals  are  substantially  similarly  situated and have an identical basis for relief. 3.10.3.  A  description  of  the  administrative  remedies  exhausted  prior  to  seeking  relief through  the  AFBCMR.    All  administrative  avenues  of  relief  must  have  been  exhausted prior to submitting the application. 3.10.4.  A  specific  recommendation  as  to  the  exact  manner  in  which  the  records  of  the named individuals should be corrected, as well as identification of the agency responsible to carry out the correction of records, should the Board recommend that relief be granted. 3.10.5.  SAF/MR  will  return  any  application  not  meeting  the  requirements  above  to  the proponent  without  action.    The  proponent  bears  the  same  burden  of  proof  as  any individual  applicant  and  the  three-year  statute  of  limitations  also  applies,  although  the Board could excuse the failure to timely file if it is in the interest of justice to do so.  The Air Staff proponent of the application will be notified of the outcome of the case before the  Board  and  is  responsible  for  notification  of  each  member  represented  in  the application. 3.11.  Authority  to  Return  Applications.  The  Executive  Director  of  the  Board,  or  person delegated authority to act on his/her behalf, may return an application without action if he or she determines the applicant is not eligible to apply; the application is clearly frivolous; the applicant has not exhausted all available and effective administrative remedies; the requested remedy is unclear or is beyond the authority of the Board. 4.  Board Actions. 4.1.  Board  Information  Sources.  The  applicant  has  the  burden  of  providing  sufficient evidence  of  material  error  or  injustice.    The  Board  will  recommend  relief  only  when  a preponderance  (more  likely  than  not)  of  evidence  substantiates  that  the  applicant  was  a victim  of  an  error  or  injustice.    The  Board  may  request  the  applicant  furnish  additional information regarding matters before the Board. 4.2.  Although  not  an  investigative  body,  the  Board  may  obtain  the  following  from  any organization/official within the Air Force or Department of Defense:  8 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 4.2.1.  Any and/or all available military records (personnel, medical, financial etc.). 4.2.2.  Advisory opinions.  Advisory opinions represent the one and only opportunity the Air Force will have to affirm its position on a case and set forth its rationale.  Advisory opinions will be staffed to agencies with a suspense of no more than 30 days  (T-1) and must contain the following: 4.2.2.1.  A  statement  of  whether  or  not  the  requested  relief  can  be  accomplished administratively,  whether  or  not  the  applicant  has  exhausted  such  administrative means  before  pursuing  relief  to  the  Board,  and  whether  or  not  the  application  was timely filed. 4.2.2.2.  A clear and concise summary of the relevant facts of the case, the applicant’s contentions, an analysis addressing the crux issues of the case, and a recommendation based on the applicable Air Force policy, regulatory requirements, or applicable law in effect at the time of the alleged error or injustice. 4.2.2.3.  Regardless  of  the  recommendation  provided  (e.g.,  grant  or  deny),  the advisory opinion shall include instructions on specific corrective action to be taken if the Board recommends relief be granted. 4.2.2.4.  If the matter before the Board pertains to a high-level decoration (Silver Star or higher), promotion issues, return to flying status, or contains allegations of reprisal, the  opinion  must  be  signed  by  at  least  a  colonel  (O-6)  or  GS-15  within  the organization providing the advisory.  (T-1) 4.2.2.5.  In  the  case  of  an  applicant  who  was  diagnosed  while  serving  in  the  armed forces  as  experiencing  a  mental  health  disorder  and  the  requested  correction  to  the military records relates to a mental health disorder, any medical advisory will contain the opinion of clinical psychologist or psychiatrist in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. § 1552(g). 4.2.2.6.  Certain  cases  may  require  multiple  advisory  opinions  from  a  command  or field operating agency (FOA) (e.g. AFPC, ARPC, NGB, AFRC, etc.).  In such cases, the perspectives of multiple offices may be consolidated into a single opinion, or take the  form  of  individual  advisory  opinions  from  the  various  offices.    If  multiple advisories  are  rendered, the command/FOA, not the individual office, and any differences on a specific issue must be reconciled within the command/FOA prior to submission to the BCMR (T-1). the  opinions  must  represent the  position  of 4.2.2.7.  Commands/FOAs will appoint a single point of contact who will manage the command/FOA’s  internal  advisory  opinion  development,  staffing,  coordination,  and accountability processes.  (T-1) 4.2.3.  Relevant  investigative  reports  (e.g.  Inspector  General  (IG),  Office  of  Special Investigation (OSI), Accident Investigation Reports, etc.). 4.3.  Applicant  Notification.  Applicants  shall  be  given  an  opportunity  to  review  and comment  on  all  correspondence  and  communications  (including  advisory  opinions)  to  or from the AFRBA and with an entity or person outside the AFRBA that pertain directly to the applicant’s  case  or  may  have  a  material  effect  thereon.    This  rule  applies  to  spoken  or telephonic  communications,  which  must  be  summarized.    This  rule  does  not  apply  to  AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 9 classified information; release of information which is otherwise prohibited or privileged by law  or  regulation  (e.g.,  privacy  act);  any  record  previously  provided  to  the  applicant  or known  to  be  possessed  by  the  applicant  (such  as  records  of  adverse  administrative  actions showing acknowledgement by the applicant); purely administrative correspondence; and any military  record  that  is  or  may  be  provided  to  the  applicant  by  the  Secretary  of  the  military department or other source. 4.3.1.  The  applicant  will  be  given  no  more  than  30  days  to  review  and  respond  to  the material  described  in  paragraph  4.3.    The  application  will  be  processed  for  the  Board’s consideration  at  the  end  of  the  30-day  period  with  the  available  evidence  of  record,  or upon  receipt  of  the  applicant’s  rebuttal,  whichever  occurs  first.    Applicants  will  not contact  offices  of  primary  responsibility  (OPR)  to  respond  to  advisory  opinions.    Any response to the advisory opinion(s) will be submitted to the Board in writing before the end of the 30-day period described above. 4.3.2.  Requests  for  an  extension  of  the  30-day  period  will  not  be  granted.    Title  10, U.S.C., Section 1557 requires the Board to  adjudicate 90 percent of its cases within ten months,  with  no  single  case  exceeding  18  months  in  processing.    Therefore,  given  this strict  processing  timeline,  extensions  to  the  30-day  period  cannot  be  granted  without compromising  the  Board’s  ability  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  10  U.S.C.  §  1557.  However,  an  applicant  may  request  their  case  be  administratively  closed,  without prejudice,  until  such  time  as  they  are  ready  to  proceed.    Once  ready  to  proceed,  the applicant must notify the Board staff in writing (e-mail or regular mail) so processing of the case to the Board may be resumed. 4.3.3.  If, in response to the advisory opinion, or at any other time, the applicant amends an  active  application  for  correction  of  records,  the  application  may  be  closed  at  the discretion of the Executive Director and the applicant will be instructed to file a new DD Form 149 so the requests can be aggregated and adjudicated simultaneously. 4.3.4.  Any requests for the status of an application before the Board (applicant initiated or otherwise) will be referred to the Air Force Review Boards Agency.  Applicants may not make contact with OPRs to ascertain the status of their application before the Board, nor will OPRs divulge information to an applicant on the adjudication of their case before the  Board,  but  will  refer  the  inquiry  to  the  Board  staff  for  a  response  to  the  applicant.  OPR access to the BCMR system of record is for official use only based on a strict need-to-know. 4.4.  Consideration  by  the  Board.  A  panel  consisting  of  at  least  three  board  members considers  each  application.    One  panel  member  serves  as  chair.    The  panel’s  actions constitute the actions of the Board. 4.5.  Board  Deliberations.  Normally,  only  members  of  the  Board  and  Board  staff  will  be present during deliberations.   The panel chair may permit observers for training purposes or otherwise in furtherance of the functions of the Board. 4.6.  Board Hearings.  Applicants may request a hearing before the Board.  Whether or not the  Board  authorizes  a  formal  hearing  is  predicated  on  its  finding  that  the  applicant’s presence,  with  or  without  counsel,  would  materially  add  to  its  understanding  of  the  issues involved.    The  Board  has  the  sole  discretion  to  determine  whether  to  grant  a  hearing.    See  10 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 DoDD  7050.06,  Military  Whistleblower  Protection  and  AFI  90-301,  Inspector  General Complaints Resolution, for special provisions in cases processed under 10 U.S.C. § 1034. 4.6.1.  The  Executive  Director,  AFBCMR,  will  notify  the  applicant  and  counsel,  if  any, of  the  time  and  place  of  the  hearing.    Written  notice  will  be  mailed  or  electronically transmitted  not  less  than  30  days  in  advance  of  the  hearing  unless  the  notice  period  is waived by the applicant.  Any response by the applicant must be received not later than 15  days  before  the  hearing  date,  accepting  or  declining  the  offer  of  a  hearing  and,  if accepting,  provide  information  pertaining  to  counsel  and  witnesses.    The  Board  will decide the case based on the evidence of record if the applicant declines the hearing, fails to respond, or fails to appear. 4.6.2.  When  granted  a  hearing,  the  applicant  may  appear  before  the  Board,  with  or without counsel, and may present witnesses.  It is the applicant’s responsibility to notify witnesses, arrange for their attendance at the hearing, and pay any associated costs. 4.6.3.  The  panel  chair  conducts  the  hearing,  maintains  order,  and  ensures  the  applicant receives a full and fair opportunity to be heard.  Formal rules of evidence do not apply, but the panel will generally consider relevancy and materiality when weighing evidence.  Witnesses other than the applicant will not be present except when testifying.  Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation.  A recorder will record the proceedings verbatim.  The  chair  will  normally  limit  hearings  to  two  hours  but  may  allow  more  time  if necessary. 4.7.  The  Board  will  not  recommend  denial  of  an  application  on  the  sole  ground  the  issue already has been decided by the SAF, Secretary of Defense (SECDEF),  or the President of the United States in another proceeding. 4.8.  Liberal  Consideration  for  Post-traumatic  Stress  Disorder  (PTSD)  and  Related Conditions.  Liberal  consideration  will  be  given  in  cases  where  an  applicant  has  presented evidence  of  a  diagnosis  of  PTSD,  or  symptoms  resembling  PTSD,  in  requests  to  upgrade their other than honorable discharge (e.g., undesirable, under other than honorable conditions (UOTHC),  bad  conduct  discharge  (BCD),  dishonorable  discharge  (DD),  dismissal,  etc.), where the applicant claims there is a causal nexus between the PTSD or PTSD symptoms and the  misconduct  which  precipitated  the  discharge.    If  applicable,  the  three-year  statute  of limitations prescribed in paragraph 3.5 will be waived by the Board. 4.9.  Review  of  Sexual  Assault  Cases.  The  Board  will  utilize  a  confidential  process  by which an individual who was the victim of a sex-related offense during service in the Armed Forces  may  challenge  the  terms  or  characterization  of  the  discharge  or  separation  of  the individual  from  the  Armed  Forces  on  the  grounds  the  terms  or  characterization  were adversely affected by the individual being the victim of such an offense.  The Board will give due consideration to the psychological and physical aspects of the individual’s experience in connection  with  the  sex-related  offense  and  determine  what  bearing  such  experience  may have had on the circumstances surrounding the individual’s discharge or separation from the Armed  Forces.    To  ensure  confidentiality,  the  Board  staff  will  ensure  the  application pertaining  to  such  a  person  is  processed  in  such  a  way  as  to  preclude  the  access  of  the application, advisory opinions, and the Board’s ultimate decision, to those without a need to know.    Final  Records  of  Proceeding  (ROP)  in  such  cases  will  not  be  posted  to  the  reading room without the consent of the applicant.  AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 11 4.10.  Board  Recommendations.  The  panel’s  majority  vote  constitutes  the  action  of  the Board.  The Board shall make a final written recommendation to the SAF, or SAF’s delegee, based on determination on the following issues: 4.10.1.  Whether the application was filed within 3 years after the error or injustice was reasonably discoverable and, if not, whether the applicant has demonstrated that it would be in the interest of justice to excuse the untimely filing.  When the Board determines that an application is not timely, and does not excuse its untimeliness, the application will be denied on that basis. 4.10.2.  Whether  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  the  existence  of  a  material  error  or injustice  that  can  be  remedied  effectively  through  correction  of  the  applicant’s  military record and, if so, what corrections are needed to provide full and effective relief. 4.10.3.  Whether the provisions of the 10 U.S.C. § 1034 apply to the application.   This determination  is  needed  only  when  the  applicant  invokes  this  protection,  or  when  the question of its applicability is otherwise raised by the evidence. 4.10.4.  In cases identified under paragraph 4.10.3, the Board may recommend to the SAF that  disciplinary  or  administrative  action  be  taken  against  any  Air  Force  official  whom the  Board  finds  to  have  committed  an  act  of  reprisal  against  the  applicant.    Any determination on this issue will not be made a part of the Board’s ROP in the case at hand and  will  not  be  given  to  the  applicant,  but  will  be  provided  directly  to  the  SAF  under separate cover (paragraph 2.2). 4.11.  Record  of  Proceedings.  The Board staff will prepare a ROP following deliberations which will include: 4.11.1.  The name and vote of each Board member. 4.11.2.  The application. 4.11.3.  Briefs and written arguments. 4.11.4.  Documentary evidence. 4.11.5.  A hearing transcript if a hearing was held. 4.11.6.  Advisory opinions (if obtained) and the applicant’s related comments. 4.11.7.  The findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the Board. 4.11.8.  Minority reports, if any. 4.11.9.  Other  information  necessary  to  show  a  true  and  complete  history  of  the proceedings. 4.12.  Minority  Reports.  There will be situations where, after deliberations, a voting panel member  will  disagree  with  the  recommendation  of  the  majority.    In  those  instances,  the dissenting panel member(s) may prepare a minority report, which may address any aspect of the case, explaining the rationale for their position. 4.13.  Separate  Communications.  The  Board  may  send  comments  or  recommendations  to the  SAF  as  to  administrative  or  disciplinary  action  against  individuals  found  to  have committed acts of reprisal prohibited by the Military Whistleblowers Protection Act and on  12 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 other  matters  arising  from  an  application  not  directly  related  to  the  requested  correction  of military  records.    Such  comments  and  recommendations  will  be  separately  communicated and will not be included in the record of proceedings or given to the applicant or counsel. 4.14.  Final Action by the Board.  The Board sends the record of proceedings describing its recommendations on each application to the SAF or to the SAF’s delegee for final decision.  For Military Whistleblower cases (10 U.S.C. § 1034), if the applicant is not satisfied with the final decision, it may be appealed to the SECDEF. 4.15.  The Board may identify DoD or Air Force policies, instructions, guidance or practices that are leading to, or likely to lead to unsound organizational decisions, unfair results, waste of government funds or public criticism.  The Board will forward such observations directly to the appropriate offices of the Secretariat, the Air Staff, or both, for review and evaluation.  Such observations will not be included in the ROP. 5.  Decision of the SAF.  In accordance with Secretarial delegations of authority, the SAF, or the SAF’s  delegee,  will  direct  such  action  as  the  SAF  or  delegee  deems  appropriate  on  each  case, including returning the case to the Board for further consideration.  Cases returned to the Board for  further  reconsideration  will  be  accompanied  by  a  brief  statement  of  the  reasons  for  such action.  If the SAF or delegee does not accept the Board’s recommendation, the decision will be in writing and will include a brief statement of the grounds for his or her final decision. 5.1.  Decisions in Cases Under the Military Whistleblowers Protection Act.  In resolving an  application  for  the  correction  of  records  made  by  a  member  or  former  member  of  the armed forces who has alleged a personnel action prohibited by the Military Whistleblowers Protection  Act,  the  Board  may  review  the  matter.    The  SAF  will  issue  decisions  on  such cases within 180 days after the application is filed.  If the SAF fails to issue a final decision within  that  time,  the  applicant  shall  be  deemed  to  have  exhausted  administrative  remedies and may appeal to the SECDEF or Federal Court as applicable.  Additionally, unless the full relief requested is granted, the Board will inform the applicant of their right to request review of the decision by the SECDEF.   Applicants will also be informed of the following: 5.1.1.  The  name  and  address  of  the  official  to  whom  the  request  for  review  must  be submitted; 5.1.2.  The  request  for  review  must  be  submitted  within  90  days  after  receipt  of  the decision by the SAF; 5.1.3.  The  request  for  review  must  be  in  writing  and  include  the  applicant’s  name, address, email address, and telephone number; a copy of the application to the AFBCMR, the final decision of the SAF, and a statement of the specific reasons the applicant is not satisfied with the decision; 5.1.4.  The  request  must  be  based  on  the  Board  record;  requests  for  review  based  on factual  allegations  or  evidence  not  previously  presented  to  the  Board  will  not  be considered  under  this  paragraph,  but  may  be  the  basis  for  reconsideration  by  the  Board under paragraph 6.    AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 13 5.2.  In cases under paragraph 5.1 which involve additional issues not cognizable under that paragraph, the additional issues may be considered separately by the Board under paragraphs 3 and 4.  The special time limit in paragraph 5.1 does  not  apply to the decision concerning these additional issues. 5.3.  In  resolving  an  application  for  the  correction  of  records  made  by  a  member  or  former member of the armed forces in which the request is based on an alleged incorrect Inspector General  finding  of  reprisal  by  the  applicant,  if  the  Board  considers  the  applicant  to  have raised  potentially  new  matters,  it  will  refer  the  applicant’s  new  matters  to  the  Air  Force Inspector General (SAF/IG). 5.3.1.  SAF/IG  will  determine  if  the  applicant’s  matters  are,  in  fact,  new,  relevant,  and material;  and  if  so,  whether  the  new  matters  warrant  that  SAF/IG  reopen  their investigation. 5.3.2.  If  SAF/IG  finds  no  new  matters  in  the  application,  or  determines  that  the  new matters are not relevant  or material  to  the original  reprisal  determination, it shall return the  case  to  the  Board  within  30  days,  informing  the  Board  of  their  determination.  SAF/IG  may  also  submit  their  analysis  of  the  applicant’s  new  matters  to  DoD  IG  for oversight and approval. 5.3.3.  If  SAF/IG  revises  in  any  way  their  original  findings  of  reprisal  by  the  applicant, SAF/IG  will  refer  the  case  to  DoD  IG  for  statutorily  required  oversight  and  approval.  Upon receipt of DoD IG’s final approval, the case will be returned to the Board within 15 days. 5.3.4.  Regardless  of  SAF/IG’s  determinations  in  paragraphs  5.3.1,  5.3.2,  and  5.3.3, SAF/IG  shall  provide  an  advisory  to  the  Board  regarding  its  determination(s).    At  a minimum,  the  advisory  shall  address  the  applicant’s  contentions  and  provide  a recommendation for granting or denying the requested relief. 5.4.  In all cases, all relevant Inspector General records will be made available to the Board for  their  use  in  cases  under  paragraph  5.3  which  involve  additional  issues  not  cognizable under that paragraph, the additional issues may be considered separately by the Board under paragraphs 3 and 4.  The special time limit in  paragraph 5.1 does not  apply to  the decision concerning these additional issues. 6.  Reconsideration of Applications.  The Board may reconsider an application if the applicant, within 3 years of the original decision, submits newly discovered relevant evidence that was not reasonably  available  when  the  application  was  previously  considered.    The  request  for reconsideration must be accompanied by a new DD Form 149, bearing the applicant’s signature and describing the specific correction requested, as well as the reasons the applicant believes he or she is the victim of an error or injustice.  Each request for reconsideration will be screened to determine  whether  or  not  it  contains  new  and  relevant  evidence  that  was  not  available  or reasonably  discoverable  when  the  original  application  was  filed.    New  arguments  about,  or analysis  of  evidence  already  considered  and  additional  statements  that  are  cumulative  to  those already in the record of proceedings will not be considered new evidence.  The Board may also reconsider an application upon its own motion. 6.1.  If  the  request  does  not  contain  new  evidence,  the  Executive  Director  or  the  Executive Director’s designee will return it to the applicant without referral to the Board.  14 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 6.2.  If the request contains new evidence, the Executive Director or his or her designee will refer  it  to  a  panel  of  the  Board  for  a  decision.    The  Board  will  decide  the  relevance  and weight  of  any new evidence and whether it was reasonably available to  the applicant  when the application was previously considered.  The Board may deny reconsideration if the new evidence  is  not  relevant  to  the  original  matter  or  if  it  was  reasonably  available  to  the applicant  when  the  original  application  was  submitted.    Otherwise,  if  the  Board  deems  the evidence  new  and  relevant,  it  will  reconsider  the  case  on  the  merits.    In  any  case,  an  ROP will be prepared by the AFBCMR staff in accordance with paragraph 4.11. 6.3.  If  the  AFBCMR  receives  a  request  for  reconsideration  more  than  3  years  after  the Board’s original decision, the case will be returned without action and the applicant will be advised the next remedy is appeal to a court of appropriate jurisdiction. 7.  Action After Final Decision. 7.1.  Action by the Executive Director.  The Executive Director or his or her designee will inform  the  applicant  or  counsel,  if  any,  of  the  final  decision  on  the  application.    If  any requested  relief  was  denied,  the  Executive  Director  will  advise  the  applicant  of reconsideration procedures and, for cases processed under 10 U.S.C. § 1034, procedures for review by SECDEF.  The Executive Director will send decisions requiring corrective action (directives)  to  the  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  (or  appropriate  designee)  for  necessary action.    These  directives  are  final  and  conclusive  on  all  officers  of  the  government.  Directives  will  be  staffed  to  command/FOA/Air  Force/DoD  agency  responsible  for promulgating the corrective action.  Corrective action should be taken within 30 days  (T-1) of the date of the instrument and copies of corrected documents should be provided to the Air Force  Review  Boards  Agency  Case  Management  Office.    Commands/FOAs  (e.g.  AFPC, AFRC,  NGB,  AFRC,  etc.)  will  appoint  a  single  point  of  contact  to  manage  the  directive promulgation process.  (T-1) 7.2.  Settlement  of  Claims.  The  Air  Force  is  authorized,  under  10  U.S.C.  §  1552,  to  pay claims for amounts due to applicants as a result of correction of military records. 7.2.1.  The Executive Director will furnish the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) with AFBCMR decisions potentially affecting monetary entitlement or benefits.  DFAS will treat such decisions as claims for payment by or on behalf of the applicant. 7.2.2.  DFAS settles claims on the basis of the corrected military record.  Computation of the  amount  due,  if  any,  is  a  function  of  DFAS.    Applicants  may  be  required  to  furnish additional information to DFAS to establish their status as proper parties to the claim and to aid in deciding amounts due. 7.2.3.  Earnings  received  from  civilian  employment  during  any  period  for  which  active duty  pay  and  allowances  are  payable  will  be  deducted  from  the  settlement.    Amounts found due will be offset by the amount of any existing indebtedness to the government. 7.2.4.  Payment of Expenses.  The Air Force has no authority to pay expenses of any kind incurred  by  or  on  behalf  of  an  applicant  in  connection  with  a  correction  of  military records under 10 U.S.C. § 1034 or § 1552.  AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 15 7.3.  Public  Access  to  Decisions.  After  deletion  of  personal  information,  AFBCMR decisions  will  be  made  available  for  review  and  copying  via  an  electronic  public  reading room at http://boards.law.af.mil/AF_BCMR.htm. 8.  Miscellaneous Provisions. 8.1.  Access to Records.  Applicants will have access to all records considered by the Board, except  those  exempted  by  law.    Inasmuch  as  the  AFBCMR  is  not  the  custodian  for  master personnel  records,  any  applicant  requesting  these  records  will  be  referred  to  the  National Personnel Records Center (NPRC), 1 Archive Drive, St.  Louis, MO 63138, (314) 801-0800, http://www.archives.gov/st-louis,  or,  if  still  serving,  the  appropriate  servicing  personnel agency. 8.2.  Senior  Leaders  Communications  with  Air  Force  Review  Boards  Agency.  Any inquiry  about  a  specific  pending  case  before  the  AFBCMR  by  a  senior  official  (general officer or Senior Executive Service (SES)) should be routed through the Director, AFRBA or the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs). DANIEL R. SITTERLY Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Manpower and Reserve Affairs   16 AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Sections 521 and 547 Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 1552 Title 10, U.S.C., Section 1556 Title 10, U.S.C., Section 1557 Title 10, U.S.C., Section 1034 DoDD 1332.41, Boards for Correction of Military Records and Discharge Review Boards, 8 March 2004 DoDD 7050.06, Military Whistleblower Protection, 15 April 2015 AFPD 90-3, Inspector General, the Complaints Resolution Program, 9 June 2016 AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 27 August 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPAM 36-2607, Applicants’ Guide to the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR), 3 November 1994 Secretary of Defense Memorandum, Supplemental Guidance to Military Boards for Correction of Military/Naval Records Considering Discharge Upgrade Requests by Veterans Claiming Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, 3 September 2014, and Acing Principal Deputy Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (OUSD-P&R) memorandum, Consideration of Discharge Upgrade Requests Pursuant to Supplemental Guidance to Military Boards for Correction of Military/Naval Records (BCMRs/BCNR) by Veterans Claiming Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), 24 February 2016. SAF/MR Memorandum, Senior Leader Communications with Air Force Review Boards Agency, dated 5 October 2011 SAF/MR Memorandum, Preparation of Advisory Opinions before the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR), dated 20 June 2012 Adopted Forms DD Form 149, Application for Correction of Military Records, December 2014 AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms AFBCMR—Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records AFDRB—Air Force Discharge Review Board AFI—Air Force Instruction  AFI36-2603  18 SEPTEMBER 2017 17 AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFRBA—Air Force Review Boards Agency AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center BCD—Bad Conduct Discharge CAC—Common Access Card DD—Dishonorble Discharge DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service FOA—Field Operating Agency NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act NGB—National Guard Bureau OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PTSD—Post-traumatic Stress Disorder RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SECDEF—Secretary of Defense U.S.C—United States Code UOTHC—Under Other Than Honorable Conditions   