BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-102 3 OCTOBER 2017 Personnel BASIC AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A1C  Supersedes:  AFI 36-102, 18 February 1994  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 8    This  publication  implements  AFPD  36-1,  General  Civilian  Personnel  Provisions  and Authorities.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the  Air  National  Guard  (NGB/CF),    the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and Services, AF/A1 develops policy for Civilian Personnel Management and Administration.  This Air  Force  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level;  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)-level supplements  must  be  approved  by  the  Human  Resource  Management  Strategic  Board  (HSB) prior to certification and approval.   This  Instruction explains appointing authority and clarifies the responsibilities of supervisors.  It outlines merit systems principles and prohibited personnel practices.  This instruction applies to Title 5 and Title 10 (United States Code (USC) Air Force civilian  employees;  this  AFI  does  not  apply  to  USC  Title  32  (USC)  Air  National  Guard technicians or to Title 5 civilians assigned to duty with the National Guard Bureau, Air National Guard, or their Field Operating Locations. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication  to  the  OPR  listed  above  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command. The authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 2 AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include  clarification  of  appointing  delegation  and  authorities,  revision  to,  and  addition  of, references for merit systems principles and prohibited personnel practices. Directs MAJCOMs to obtain approval of the HSB for supplements to this Instruction.  Instructs users to ensure records maintenance and disposition are in accordance with current AF policies and that Privacy Act and PII  information  appropriately  protected.    Adds  Tier  waiver  authorities  for  use  by  Installation Commanders; includes an adopted form. 1.  Responsibilities. 1.1.  Appointing Authority Delegation.   IAW AFPD 36-1 para 1.2, the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), as head of the agency, is provided by law the authority to take final action on matters  pertaining  to  the  employment,  direction,  and  general  administration  of  personnel within  the  agency.    This  authority  to  appoint,  promote,  reassign,  discipline,  demote,  detail, compensate,  and  separate  employees  paid  from  appropriated  funds  is  known  as  the “appointing  authority.”    The  SecAF  delegates  this  authority  directly  to  the  Installation Commanders  (or  their  civilian  equivalents).  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF),  the  Major Commands  (MAJCOMs)  and  Combatant  Commanders  (CCDR),  the  Air  Force  Personnel Center  (AFPC)  and  Civilian  Personnel  Sections  (CPSs)  support  the  SecAF  and  the Installation  Commanders  in  the  administration  of  this  authority.    However,  they  are  not delegated appointing authority directly from the SecAF.  Exceptions are: 1.1.1.  The  Deputy  SAF/AA  has  appointing  authority  for  Headquarters  Air  Force positions. 1.1.2.  IAW, DoDD 5105.77 Enclosure 2, the Chief National Guard Bureau (CNGB) has the  authority  to  manage  the  manpower  allocations-resources  and  appointing  authority over non-technician (5 USC) Air National Guard employees performing duty within the National  Guard  Bureau,  to  include those of the  Air National  Guard  Directorate, the Air National Guard Readiness Center, and their field operating locations, as a joint activity of the Department of Defense. 1.1.3.  Intra-agency  Civilian  Personnel  Service  Agreements  (CPSAs).    The  host  tenant support  agreements  pertain  to  providing  civilian  personnel  servicing  for  non-AF employees, appointing authority must follow the owning agency delegation of authority requirements.  Commanders  covered  by  Inter-Agency  Civilian  Personnel  Servicing Agreements  (CPSAs)  have  appointing  authority  under  such  agreements  in  accordance with procedures established in AFI 36-105, Civilian Personnel Servicing Arrangements. NOTE:    These  commanders  may  not  effect  a  personnel  action,  unless  directing  that  a specific civilian personnel action be taken, corrected, or canceled to comply with a law, policy, directive, or procedure. 1.1.4.  Senior Executive Service (SES) appointing authority is retained by the SecAF. AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 3 1.2.  Commanders granted appointing authority under Para. 1.1., or their designees, must be on extended military service or on a full-time Federal civilian appointment (T-1). 1.3.  Some instructions in the 36 personnel series assign authority and responsibility for the subject  area  they  cover  to  specified  positions,  organizations,  or  organizational  levels. Usually, this is done for those actions based on the use of appointing authority. If there is no specific  restriction,  appointing  authority  and  responsibility  follow  the  established  chain  of command.  Installation  commanders  may  delegate  their  appointing  authority  to  any appropriate subordinate level. 1.4.  Appointing Officials.   Appointing officials  cannot  make changes in  legal  requirements or  in  the  policies  issued  by  the  Federal  civilian  personnel  agencies  (Office  of  Personnel Management,  Merit  Systems  Protection  Board,  Federal  Labor  Relations  Authority,  or  the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission), the Department of Defense, or the Air Force. 1.5.  Chain  of Command.  The chain of  command concept  is  essential in  the assignment of mission  responsibilities  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  to  the  Chief  of  Staff,  and, successively, to  commanders of major  commands or comparable organizations, subordinate commanders,  down  to  first-level  supervisors.  Each  level  in  the  chain  of  command  has personnel  management  responsibilities,  from  overall  direction  and  guidance  at  the  top management level to immediate supervision at the operating level, and direct supervision at the  lowest  level.  Chain  of  Command  is  not  to  be  confused  with  appointing  authority.  Appointing Authority is an unbroken line from the SecAF to Installation Commanders and it does not follow the chain of command. 1.6.  An  official  of  the  serviced  department  who  has  entered  into  an  Inter-Agency  Civilian Personnel  Servicing  Agreement  and  has  specific  delegated  appointing  authority  from  their own agency for the group of employees involved, must issue formal authority, in writing, to the  Civilian  Personnel  Officer  (CPO)  providing  the  service  to  act  for  that  position  in  the administration of the civilian personnel program (T-1). These officials are not authorized to delegate appointing authority to effect civilian personnel actions to anyone outside their own agency  or  department  (T-0).  The  CPO  providing  the  service  to  another  agency  is  to  be designated,  not  delegated,  this  authority.    This  written  designation  is  to  provide  for  the administration and authentication of civilian personnel actions, but does not provide the CPO appointing authority for employees in a different agency. 2.  Supervisor Responsibilities. 2.1.  Authority  and  Responsibility.    As  a  minimum,  management  must  give  supervisors authority and responsibility to hire, direct, assign, promote, reward, transfer, furlough, layoff, recall, suspend, discipline, or remove employees, to adjust their grievances, or to effectively recommend  such  action,  if  the  exercise  of  the  authority  is  not  merely  routine  or  clerical  in nature  but  requires  the  consistent  exercise  of  independent  judgment  (Title  5,  United  States Code,  Part  71,  paragraph  7103(a)(1)  –  Definition  of  Supervisor).    This  includes  the responsibilities,  as  identified  in  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  General  Schedule Supervisory Guide, to: 2.1.1.  Plan work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjust short-term priorities, and prepare schedules for completion of work; 4 AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 2.1.2.  Assign  work  to  subordinates  based  on  priorities,  selective  consideration  of  the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees; 2.1.3.  Evaluate work performance of subordinates; 2.1.4.  Give advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters; 2.1.5.  Interview  candidates  for  positions promotion, or reassignment to such positions; in the  unit;  recommend  appointment, 2.1.6.  Hear and resolve complaints from employees, referring group grievances and more serious unresolved complaints to a higher level supervisor or manager; 2.1.7.  Effect  minor  disciplinary  measures,  such  as  warnings  and  reprimands, recommending other action in more serious cases; 2.1.8.  Identify  developmental  and  training  needs  of  employees,  providing  or  arranging for needed development and training; 2.1.9.  Find ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed; 2.1.10.  Develop performance standards. 2.2.  Supervisors must perform these duties in  accordance  with  the merit  system principles; without  unlawful  discrimination  because  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex  (including  pregnancy, sexual orientation or transgender status), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, or prior Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) activity, or any other non-merit factors  prohibited  by  statute,  regulation,  or  Executive  Order,  and  refrain  from  taking  any action identified as a prohibited personnel practice. (T-0) 3.  Merit  System  Principles.  All  staff  officials,  managers,  and  supervisors  with  civilian personnel program responsibilities must preserve merit system principles (Title 5, USC, Chapter 23, Section 2301, Merit System Principles). (T-0)  In doing so, they should: 3.1.  Recruit, select, and advance on merit after fair and open competition. 3.2.  Treat employees and applicants fairly and equitably. 3.3.  Provide equal pay for equal work and reward excellent performance. 3.4.  Maintain high standards of integrity, conduct, and concern for the public interest. 3.5.  Manage employees efficiently and effectively. 3.6.  Retain or separate employees on the basis of their performance. 3.7.  Educate  and  train  employees  if  it  will  result  in  better  organizational  or  individual performance. 3.8.  Protect employees from arbitrary treatment or improper political influence. 3.9.  Protect  employees  against  reprisal  for  the  lawful  disclosure  of  information  in “whistleblower” situations. 4.  Prohibited  Personnel  Practices.  All  persons  with  authority  to  take,  direct  others  to  take, recommend, or approve any personnel action shall not: (T-0) (Title 5, USC, Chapter 23, Section 2302, Prohibited Personnel Practices): AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 5 4.1.  Illegally discriminate for or against any employee/applicant. 4.2.  Solicit or consider improper employment recommendations for any personnel action. 4.3.  Coerce an employee’s political activity or retaliate against an employee or applicant for refusing to engage in political activity. 4.4.  Obstruct a person’s right to compete for employment. 4.5.  Influence any person to withdraw from competition for a position. 4.6.  Give unauthorized preference or improper advantage. 4.7.  Employ, advance or promote a relative (i.e., nepotism). 4.8.  Retaliate against a whistleblower, whether an employee or applicant. 4.9.  Retaliate against employees or applicants for filing an appeal, complaint, or grievance. 4.10.  Unlawfully discriminate for off-duty conduct. 4.11.  Knowingly violate veterans’ preference requirements. 4.12.  Violate any law, rules, or regulations which implements or directly concerns the merit principles.  GABREL O. CAMARILLO, SES Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 6 AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References Title 5, United States Code, Chapter 23, Section 2301, Merit System Principles Title 5, United States Code, Chapter 23, Section 2302, Prohibited Personnel Practices Title 5, United States Code, Chapter 71, Section 7103(a)(1), Definition of Supervisor OPM General Schedule Supervisory Guide, April 1998 Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1400.5, DoD Policy for Civilian Personnel, January 12, 2005 Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1400.25, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, December 1, 1996 Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5107.77, National Guard Bureau, (NGB), October 30, 2015 AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, July 23, 2013 AFPD 36-27, Equal Opportunity, April 9, 2012 AFI 36-105, Civilian Personnel Servicing Arrangements, March 22, 1994 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, January 12, 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, December 1, 2015 AFMAN 17-1201, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, June 1, 2012 AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, January 22, 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 7 CCDR—Combatant Commander CNGB—Chief National Guard Bureau CPO—Civilian Personnel Officer CPS—Civilian Personnel Section CPSA—Civilian Personnel Service Agreement DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DoDD—Department of Defense Directive EEO—Equal Employment Opportunity HAF— Headquarters Air Force, an organization which includes the Secretariat and the Air Staff HSB— Human Resource Management Strategic Board IAW—In Accordance With MAJCOM— Major Command NGB— National Guard Bureau OPM— Office of Personnel Management OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility RDS— Records Disposition Schedule SAF— Air Force Secretariat SecAF— Secretary of the Air Force SES—Senior Executive Service USC— United States Code Terms Adopted Form— A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication. Air  Force—wide  -  Includes  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF:  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff), MAJCOMs/COCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, centers, wings, bases, and below. Appointing  Authority—The  authorization  within  an  agency  to  appoint,  promote,  reassign, discipline, demote, detail, compensate, and separate civilian employees. Appointing  official  ‒—A  person  having  the  authority,  by  law  or  by  duly  delegated authorization, to appoint, promote, reassign, discipline, demote, detail, compensate, and separate employees. Chain  of  Command—The  order  in  which  all  control  and  accountability  in  an  organization flows.  It extends in an unbroken line from the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) through the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), to  the  MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Commanders (or civilian leader  equivalent),  on  to  the  Commanders  Numbered  Air  Forces,  Centers,  Wings,  and  other 8 AFI36-102  3 OCTOBER 2017 subordinate  units,  through  intermediate  supervisors  to  the  first-level  supervisors  at  the  lowest organizational level.  Chain of command is not to be confused with the appointing authority. Combatant Command (CCMD)—A CCMD Commander operates in a Joint Command (more than  one  DoD  service)  environment.    A  CCMD  commander  provides  authoritative  direction  to subordinate  commands  and  forces  necessary  to  carry  out  missions  assigned  to  the  command, including  authoritative  direction  over  all  aspects  of  military  operations,  joint  training,  and logistics.    A  CCMD  is  an  equivalent  organization  to  a  MAJCOM,  only  it  operates  in  a  joint environment. Extended Military Service— A term of service for 90 days or longer. Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF)—  The  HAF  is  comprised  of  both  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff offices. Major Command (MAJCOM)— A major command (MAJCOM) is a major subdivision of the Air  Force,  assigned  a  major  segment  of  the  USAF  mission.    (AFI  38-101)    It  has  assigned Numbered Air Forces (NAF) or Centers, along with other subordinate organizations reporting to the MAJCOM Commander through the chain of command. Policy—  A  statement  of  important,  high-level  direction  that  guides  decisions  and  actions throughout  the  Air  Force.  Policy  translates  the  ideas,  goals,  or  principles  contained  in  the mission, vision, and strategic plan into actionable directives. Supervisor—An  individual  employed  by  an  agency  having  authority  in  the  interest  of  the agency  to  hire,  direct,  assign,  promote,  reward,  transfer,  furlough,  layoff,  recall,  suspend, discipline,  or  remove  employees,  to  adjust  their  grievances,  or  to  effectively  recommend  such action,  provided  the  exercise  of  the  authority  is  not  merely  routine  or  clerical  in  nature  but requires the consistent exercise of independent judgment.  (5 USC § 7103(A)(10)).  