BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-208 22 SEPTEMBER 2015 SECURITY CORRECTIONAL CUSTODY (REMOTIVATION) PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AF/A4SP  Supersedes:  AFI31-208, 30 July 2009  Certified by: HQ AF/A4S  ( Mr. David R. Beecroft) Pages: 9  This  instruction  implements    AFPD  31-1,  Integrated  Defense.  It  provides  guidance  on  general Security Forces duties and law enforcement operations. This instruction applies to Department of the Air Force military, civilian, and Reserve personnel from other US military branches assigned or  attached  to  Air  Force  units,  contract  Security  Forces,  and  government-owned,  contractor-operated  (GOCO)  and  contractor-owned,  contractor-operated  (COCO)  facilities.   Refer recommended  changes  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  IMT  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  IMT  847s  from  the  field  through  the appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  Any  organization  may  supplement  this  instruction. The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.  This  publication  requires  the  collection  and/or  maintenance  of  information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are 10 U.S.C. & 8013 and DoDD 7730.47, Defense Incident Base Reporting System. Forms affected by the PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act Statement of Record  notice  is  available  online  at:    http://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.  The commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply  endorsement  by the  Air  Force.    Records  Disposition:  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  this publication  are  maintained  per  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  per 2 AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 the Air Force (AF) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  revised.    Changes  include  incorporating  recommendations  from  the Compliance  Statement  Standard  review,  updating  references  and  complying  with  AFI  33-360 requirements. AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 3 Chapter 1 PROGRAM DEFINITION AND PURPOSE 1.1.  Definition.  This AFI implements Correctional Custody as a non-judicial punishment option that  commanders  may  impose  for  offenses  under  Article  15  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military Justice.  It  is  not  confinement,  and  time  served  in  remotivation  is  not  time  lost  under  Title  10, United  States  Code,  Section  972.  Security  Forces  Staff  are  not  assigned  to,  nor  part  of,  the program.  Detention  cells  co-located  with  law  enforcement  desks  and  Air  Force  Corrections System (AFCS) facilities are not to be used for this program. 1.2.  Purpose.  This  program  is  optional.  It  provides  commanders  a  secure  setting  in  which  to maintain discipline while reeducating and remotivating Airmen for return to the mainstream Air Force.  It  educates,  rehabilitates  and  deters  program  entrants  from  repeating  offenses.  Because depriving Airmen of their liberty is a severe punishment, imposing this program requires careful consideration. 4 AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 Chapter 2 ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND STAFF TRAINING 2.1.  Determining  Need.  Installation  commanders  decide  whether  a  program  is  needed  by balancing potential costs and benefits. This program should not be run by the SF personnel and should be re-evaluated at least annually. 2.1.1.  Before setting up a program, consider these factors 2.1.1.1.  Deterrent to potential entrants. 2.1.1.2.  Cost of facility, staff, vehicles, and equipment.  2.1.1.3.  Burden on units providing staff. 2.1.1.4.  Savings from rehabilitating entrants instead of replacing them. 2.1.1.5.  Value of work entrants do for the installation. 2.1.1.6.  Potential number of entrants. 2.2.  Remotivation  Housing.  Use  dormitories  or  other  suitable  housing.  If  quarters  for unaccompanied  personnel  are  used,  clearly  define  the  program  area  and  make  it  off  limits  to people not involved in the program. Use partitions to make rooms in open-bay dormitories. In all cases, consider needs for fire, safety and emergency evacuation before program requirements. 2.3.  Regional Facilities.  If an installation facility is impractical, installations may participate in a  regional  program.  Air  Force  major  commands  (MAJCOMs)  may  determine  the  need  for regional  facilities.  If  the  installation  belongs  to  a  separate  MAJCOM,  develop  support agreements to define responsibilities. AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 5 Chapter 3 OPERATING A REMOTIVATION AREA 3.1.  Remotivation  Plan.  If  the  installation  commander  opts  for  a  program,  then  they  are responsible for its establishment.  If  established, the installation commander designates  an OPR for the program. The OPR will develop a local plan governing its operation in coordination with the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). (T-3). The installation commander will review and approve the installation’s program plan. (T-2). 3.1.1.  The plan should include the following: 3.1.1.1.  Purpose and policy. 3.1.1.2.  Rehabilitation programs and responsibilities of referral agencies. 3.1.1.3.  Standardized procedures for in-processing. 3.1.1.4.  Daily schedules. 3.1.1.5.  Responsibilities of unit commanders, program supervisors and staff. 3.1.1.6.  Training and work programs, including how much “extra” duty to permit. 3.1.1.7.  Guidelines for supervising and treating entrants. 3.1.1.8.  Establish  local  procedures  for  secure  storage,  issue,  accountability,  and destruction  of  entrant  medications.  The  program  staff  strictly  controls  medical  supplies and  medication,  documents  all  medication  issues  and  dispositions,  and  files  completed records in an entrant’s established folder. 3.1.2.  The  training  and  work  plan  may  include  military,  physical  or  technical  training, productive  work  or  other  duties.  Program  entrants  may  be  assigned  details.  Develop procedures for returning entrants to their normal duty sections for parts of the day as soon as possible after entry into the program. 3.1.2.1.  Installation commanders will incorporate a physical training routine at least three times a week into the entrant’s curriculum. (T-2). 3.1.2.2.  Prior to entering the program, the Airman’s unit ensures the host medical facility conducts  a  health  assessment.  The  purpose  of  the  assessment  should  focus  on  the entrant’s fitness to complete program requirements. (T-3). 3.2.  Unit  Commander’s  Progress  Review.  Commanders  maintain  command  authority  for assigned  personnel  in  the  program,  regardless  of  location.  If  imposed,  the  commander  or  first sergeant reviews the progress of the entrant weekly. Commanders must get base referral agencies to evaluate and contribute to the correction process by making referral appointments for entrants.  (T-3).  Commanders  are  responsible  for  providing  escorts  to  required  referral  appointments. Commanders may mitigate, remit, or suspend punishment for the following reasons: 3.2.1.  The entrant’s behavior is believed to have been corrected. 3.2.2.  Remotivational treatment is no longer appropriate. 3.2.3.  Administrative discharge actions have begun. 6 AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 3.3.  Staffing.  The  Installation  Commander  determines  the  size  of  the  program  staff  and carefully  screens  and  selects  NCOs  to  make  sure  they  are  responsible,  dependable,  mature  and meet all quality indicators. Security Forces are not assigned as staff members. A panel consisting of a Field Grade Officer, a Chief Master Sergeant, and a First Sergeant will be appointed by the Installation  Commander  to  screen  and  recommend  NCOs  for  Remotivation  staff  duties.  (T-2).  All  NCOs  appointed  to  the  program  staff  retain  their  primary  AFSC.  Refer  to  AFI  36-2101 (3.34.4.1) to approve using Airmen (E-4) through SMSgt outside their CAFSC. The NCOIC of the  Program  Staff  reports  directly  to  the  Installation  Commander  or  designated  representative. The  Installation  Commander  may  screen  and  detail  additional  staff  from  units  with  members assigned  to  the  when  the  staff  temporarily  needs  them.  Do  not  use  corrections  or  confinement staff personnel to manage or staff a program facility. 3.3.1.  Prior  to  assigning  members  to  the  program  staff,  the  installation  commander  must require each individual have proper CPR and other first-aid related training as determined by MDG/CC. (T-2). 3.3.2.  The  installation  commander  must  have  provisions  established  for  female  candidates when assigned. (T-2). 3.4.  Training and Work Programs.  Allow entrants to train and work in their own units as they progress  in  the  program.  Each  unit  supervises  entrants  attached  to  it  for  training  or  work  and designs duties so entrants meet performance standards in their AFSC by the end of the program. 3.4.1.  Supervisors  of  regional  program  facilities  will  designate  work  and  training  units  for candidates, thus returning candidates to their AFSC whenever possible. (T-2). 3.4.2.  Each facility uses offices such as base legal, a local PME Academy, and the Military Equal Opportunity office to educate entrants on professional military subjects. 3.5.  Supervising  Candidates.  Supervise  entrants  at  all  times  in  the  program  area,  and  know where they are at other times. Program supervisors and staff will not carry weapons or use any form of personal restraints, such as handcuffs. (T-3). Staff members must abide by the following standards when dealing with entrants: (T-1). 3.5.1.  Act  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  UCMJ  and  observe  the  rights  of individuals.  The  following  aspects  of  program  staff  member  behavior  require  special emphasis and the program supervisor immediately reviews any violations: 3.5.1.1.  Personal  dignity  of  all  individuals  is  observed  and  any  act  or  work  assignment that demeans, degrades, humiliates or serves only to embarrass an individual is expressly prohibited. 3.5.1.2.  Physical  abuse,  hazing,  use  of  unnecessary  force  and  any  form  of  corporal punishment by staff is prohibited. The use of profanity by staff is prohibited. 3.5.1.3.  Striking or laying hands upon candidates is prohibited except in self-defense, to prevent  serious  injury  to  others,  to  prevent  serious  damage  to  property,  to  effect  an authorized search, or to quell a disturbance. In such cases, the amount of force used is the least amount necessary to bring the situation under control. 3.5.1.4.  The  staff  shall  not  use  their  official  position  to  establish  or  maintain  social contacts or relationships with entrants or their families or friends. (T-3). AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 7 3.5.1.5.  The  staff  shall  set  high  personal  standards  of  appearance  and  military  bearing. (T-3). 3.5.1.6.  Staff members are prohibited from fraternizing with entrants. These restrictions should not prohibit all contact, such as simple conversations between entrants and staff. 3.5.1.7.  Sexual  harassment  is  prohibited.  This  behavior  interferes  with  an  individual’s performance and creates an intimidating, hostile and offensive environment. Whether the individual is an entrant or staff member, sexual harassment denies the individual respect and dignity, and is contrary to the mission of the facility. 3.6.  Disciplining  Candidates.  The  commander  who  imposes  punishment  also  disciplines entrants who commit violations while in the program. The installation commander may empower the  program  supervisor  to  withdraw  in-house  privileges  from  entrants  who  commit  minor violations. The program supervisor must establish disciplinary guidelines. (T-2). 3.7.  Clothing for Candidates.  Program entrants must wear the prescribed Air Force uniform in the  program  area  and  in  training  or  work  programs.  (T-3).  Do  not  use  special  or  distinctive uniforms, armbands, or other devices to identify entrants.  TIMOTHY K. BRIDGES, SES Asst DCS/Logistics, Engineering & Force Protection 8 AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 Jan 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013 AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 Oct 2011, AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 31 March 2015 AFMAN 44-163_IP, First Aid, Manual, 23 Dec 2002 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 DoDD 7730.47, Defense Incident-Based Reporting System (DIBRS), 15 Oct 1996 10 USC Sec 8030 10 USC 972 Adopted Forms AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  AFI31-208  22 SEPTEMBER 2015 9 Attachment 2 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES A2.1.  The  Air  Force  Director  of  Security  Forces  (HQ  USAF/A4S)  establishes  policy  and guidance for administering the program. A2.2.  The Air Force Security Forces Center, Corrections Division ( AFSFC/SFC) monitors and administers the program as directed by the HQ USAF/A4S. A2.3.  The  MAJCOM/A7S  acts  as  the  MAJCOM’s  office  of  primary  responsibility  for  the program and coordinates with AFSFC on program issues. A2.4.  The  installation  commander  approves  local  policies  and  procedures  for  operating  the program  and uses  referral  agencies to  counsel/evaluate candidates.  The installation commander also  uses  feedback  from  the  unit  commander,  referral  agencies,  and  program  supervisor  to evaluate the program’s effectiveness. A2.5.  Unit commanders decide if remotivation corrects an entrant’s delinquent behavior. Do not assign  remotivation  for  members  above  staff  sergeant  or  when  the  individual  is  discharged. Track and evaluate an entrant’s progress in the program using regular reports from the program supervisor and referral agencies. A2.6.  The program supervisor will: A2.6.1.  Administer the program under the designated OPR’s supervision. (T-2). A2.6.2.  Oversee buildings and equipment. (T-2). A2.6.3.  Make sure correction is fair and effective. (T-2). A2.6.4.  Report  any  misconduct  that  may  warrant  disciplinary  action  to  the  responsible commander. (T-2). A2.6.5.  Supervise entrants in the program area or assigned duties that are directly monitored. (T-2).  