BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-284314 APRIL 2005PersonnelSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY AWARDSCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ USAF/ST  (Col Daniel DeForest) Supersedes AFI 36-2843, 11 May 1994 Certified by:  (Col Daniel DeForest)Pages: 9Distribution: FThis instruction implements portions of AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, that cover AirForce-level awards for accomplishments in science and technology. The awards include the John L.McLucas Basic Research Award, the Harold Brown Award, the Research and Development Award, theScience and Engineering Award, the Cadet Research Award, and the AFIT Systems Engineering Award.This instruction does not apply to the Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard. All records created as aresult of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (willbe AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force RecordsDisposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/. SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision 1) renames the Basic Research Award to the John L. McLucas Basic Research Award; 2)establishes two new awards: the Cadet Research Award and the AFIT Systems Engineering Award; 3)provides clarification of the purpose of each award (section 1.); 4) adds a one page limit to the supervi-sor’s nomination letter (paragraph 5.1.); 5) deletes the requirement for names of spouse, children and par-ents in biographical data (paragraph 5.2.); 6) specifies use of AF Form 1206, Nomination For Award, fornarrative write-ups, adds margins and type style for the narratives, and specifies specific narrative head-ings (paragraph 5.4.); 7) deletes the requirement for a list of published papers, articles, patents, andspeeches (paragraph 5.5.); 8) breaks out selection process and criteria by award (section 6.); 9) adds therequirement for organizations to provide photographs of the winners and fund travel for presentation(paragraph 7.2.); 10) replaces bulleted paragraphs with numbered paragraphs; 11) provides minor edits toimprove understanding and clarity, and 12) adds Attachment 1, Glossary of References and SupportingInformation. 1.  Purpose. The Air Force Chief Scientist, HQ USAF/ST, may give the following awards annually forsignificant accomplishments in science and technology in support of the Air Force mission. 2AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 20051.1.  The John L. McLucas Basic Research Award, named for the former Secretary of the Air Force,recognizes individuals that make outstanding contributions through scientific efforts and achieve-ments of United States Air Force in-house basic research activities (budget activity 6.1 or equivalent).1.2.  The Harold Brown Award, named for the former Secretary of the Air Force, recognizes signif-icant achievement in research and development (R&D) by one person that led to, or demonstratedpromise of, a substantial improvement in the operational effectiveness of the Air Force. It may also bea translation of R&D results into increased operational capability or demonstrated leadership in apply-ing guidance and direction to elements of the United States Air Force R&D Program to enhance AirForce capability. 1.3.  The Air Force Research and Development Award recognizes accomplishments of militarypersonnel working in the area of Applied Research or Advanced Technology Development (budgetactivity 6.2, 6.3 or equivalent), with emphasis on improving the technology readiness level, transition-ing into acquisition programs, or direct fielding to operational forces. 1.4.  The Air Force Science and Engineering Award recognizes personnel for outstanding contribu-tions in the following areas of research, development, or engineering. One award may be given eachyear in each category, except that a separate team award may be given in the category of Exploratoryor Advanced Technology Development. 1.4.1.  Research Management. Given for noteworthy achievement in management of scientificresearch and development activities. Noteworthy management achievements include overcomingsignificant obstacles, significantly improving processes or dealing with complex problems. 1.4.2.  Exploratory or Advanced Technology Development. Given for noteworthy achieve-ments in areas of Applied Research or Advanced Technology Development (budget activity 6.2,6.3 or equivalent). Emphasis is on improving the technology readiness level (TRL), transitioninginto acquisition programs, or direct fielding to operational forces. 1.4.3.  Engineering Achievement. Given for noteworthy achievements in engineering resultingin new applications of existing, mature technology (TRL 5 or greater) or improved design of com-ponents, subsystems, or complete systems for the Air Force. Achievements should be linked tospecific Air Force missions. 1.4.4.  Manufacturing Technology. Given for significant achievements in improving the technol-ogy to manufacture Air Force systems by reducing cost or complexity of manufacturing. Achieve-ment benefits are specific and quantifiable. 1.5.  The Cadet Research Award recognizes United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) and AirForce Reserve Officers Training Corp (AFROTC) cadets or teams for noteworthy achievements fur-thering USAF research in a science or technology area. One award may be given each year in eachcategory of USAFA and AFROTC. 1.6.  The AFIT Systems Engineering Award recognizes Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)students or teams for outstanding achievements in furthering systems engineering understanding inthe United States Air Force. Only one award may be given each year. 2.  Description of the Awards:  2.1.  The winner of the John L. McLucas Basic Research Award receives a plaque symbolizing indi-vidual contributions to the Air Force, a certificate, and a cash award provided by the Air Force OfficeAFI36-2843   14 APRIL 20053of Scientific Research. The winner may wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military) or AirForce Recognition Lapel Pin (civilian), as appropriate. Up to four honorable mention winners receivea certificate and a smaller cash award. 2.2.  The winner of the Harold Brown Award receives a brass medallion embedded in a distinctiveLucite block. The winner also receives a certificate signed by the Secretary of the Air Force and theChief of Staff of the Air Force, and the winner’s name is engraved on a plaque permanently displayednear the office of the Secretary of the Air Force. The winner also may wear the Air Force RecognitionRibbon (military) or Air Force Recognition Lapel Pin (civilian), as appropriate. 2.3.  Up to five winners of the Research and Development Award receive a plaque and a certificate.The winners may wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon. 2.4.  The winners of the Science and Engineering Award receive a certificate. The winners may wearthe Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military) or Air Force Recognition Lapel Pin (civilian), as appro-priate. 2.5.  The winners of the Cadet Research Award receive a certificate. The winners may wear the AirForce Recognition Ribbon. 2.6.  The winners of the AFIT Systems Engineering Award receive a certificate. The winners maywear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military) or Air Force Recognition Lapel Pin (civilian), asappropriate. 3.  Eligibility Criteria:  3.1.  John L. McLucas Basic Research Award. Air Force military or civilian individuals involvedin some form of basic research may compete for this award. Selection criteria are based on outstand-ing contributions to basic research during the previous three calendar years. Honorable mention win-ners from previous years who have performed additional work in their subject area may also benominated. Nominations are for individual effort. For research teams, the individual who is mostresponsible for the success of the effort should be submitted. Nominee’s contributions: 3.1.1.  Must be in a subject area that contributes to technology for the Air Force, 3.1.2.  Must be clearly of basic research nature and be distinctive and of exceptional value in thefield, and 3.1.3.  Should be published or accepted for publication in a refereed scientific journal or equiva-lent. 3.2.  Harold Brown Award. Any military or civilian individual of the Air Force engaged in somephase of R&D is eligible for this award. If the achievement was a team effort, submit the individualwhose contributions were most responsible for the success of the work. 3.3.  Research and Development Award. Any Air Force military individual working in AppliedResearch or Advanced Technology Development (budget activity 6.2, 6.3 or equivalent) are eligiblefor this award. 3.4.  Science and Engineering Award. Any Air Force military or civilian individual or teams(Exploratory or Advanced Technology Development category only) may be nominated for contribu-tions in the appropriate categories. Individuals cannot be submitted for more than one category in asingle year. 4AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 20053.5.  Cadet Research Award. Any USAFA or AFROTC cadet or cadet team majoring in some areaof science or technology is eligible for this award. 3.6.  AFIT Systems Engineering Award. Any military or civilian student or student team of AFITresidence or civilian institution science or engineering programs is eligible for this award. 4.  Submitting Nominations. Supervisors submit nominations for each award through their chain ofcommand to the Chief Scientist of the Air Force, HQ USAF/ST. Submissions for the John L. McLucasBasic Research and Harold Brown Awards must reach HQ USAF/ST by 15 March. Submissions for theUSAFA Cadet Research and AFIT Systems Engineering Awards must reach AF/ST by 15 April. Submis-sions for the Research and Development and Science and Engineering Awards must reach HQ USAF/STby 15 May. 5.  Package Contents. Award packages may be classified or unclassified. Each awards package will con-tain 8 copies of the following: 5.1.  Supervisor’s nomination cover letter, limited to one page. 5.2.  Personal biographical data, to include 5.2.1.  Name. 5.2.2.  Grade. 5.2.3.  Current assignment, to include mailing address and telephone number. 5.2.4.  Education data, to include high school and college(s) attended, dates, areas of study, anddegrees 5.3.  Short (not to exceed 100 words) unclassified citation to accompany the award. 5.4.  AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, containing specific justification for the award. Justifi-cation may be in either bullet or narrative form. Limit justification to no more than two single spacedpages. If the electronic version of AF Form 1206 is not used, type style will be Times New Roman 12.Justifications should contain the following headings: 5.4.1.  Area of endeavor - A general description of the field of study or development. 5.4.2.  Description of the achievement - Specifically what the individual or team did, how well itwas done, and what obstacles were overcome. 5.4.3.  Degree of completion - What work remains to transition the achievement to the next levelof technology readiness. 5.4.4.  Uniqueness of the achievement - Originality of the work and why it is important to the fieldof study. 5.4.5.  Value of the achievement to the Air Force - Relevance and impact to the Air Force mission,including areas or specific programs into which the technology will transition. 5.5.  DELETED 5.6.  Copy of published or submitted article (John L. McLucas Basic Research Award only). 5.7.  Letters of recommendation (if desired). AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 200555.8.  One AF Form 1001, Award Recommendation Transmittal, filled out through item 7 (John L.McLucas Basic Research Award only). 6.  How Award Recipients Are Selected.  6.1.  John L. McLucas Basic Research Award. The Chief Scientist will chose board members fromthe Air Force Office of Scientific Research, the Air Staff, and Secretariat who will make recommen-dations. The Chief Scientist will make the final decision after considering all inputs. Narratives will begraded by the following criteria (listed in priority order): research quality, originality, importance tothe Air Force, degree of transition, importance in the field, and degree of completion. 6.2.  Harold Brown Award. A board made up of the Assistant Secretary, Acquisition; the Vice Chiefof Staff of the Air Force and the Chief Scientist will recommend a nominee to the Secretary of the AirForce, who selects the winner. Narratives will be graded by the following criteria (listed in priorityorder): importance to the Air Force, originality, research quality, importance in the Field and degree ofcompletion. 6.3.  Research and Development Award. The Chief Scientist will chose board members from theAir Staff, and Secretariat who will make recommendations. The Chief Scientist will make the finaldecision after considering all inputs. Narratives will be graded by the following criteria (listed in pri-ority order): research quality, originality, importance to the Air Force, degree of transition, importancein the field, and degree of completion. 6.4.  Science and Engineering Awards. The Chief Scientist will chose board members from the AirStaff, and Secretariat who will make recommendations. The Chief Scientist will make the final deci-sion after considering all inputs. Narratives will be graded by the following criteria (listed in priorityorder): 6.4.1.  Research Management. Originality, complexity, importance to the Air Force, and degreeof completion. 6.4.2.  Exploratory or Advanced Technology Development. Research quality, originality,importance to the Air Force, degree of transition, importance in the field, and degree of comple-tion. 6.4.3.  Engineering Achievement. Originality, quality of development, importance to the AirForce, importance in the field, and degree of completion. 6.4.4.  Manufacturing Technology. Originality, importance to the Air Force, research quality,and degree of completion. 6.5.  Cadet Research Award. The USAFA and AFROTC detachments will submit nominations tothe Chief Scientist. Multiple nominations will be prioritized by the USAFA or AFROTC detachment,as appropriate, before submission. The Chief Scientist may chose reviewers from the Air Staff, andSecretariat who will make recommendations. The Chief Scientist will make the final decision afterconsidering all inputs. Narratives will be graded by the following criteria (listed in priority order):Research quality, originality, importance in the field, importance to the Air Force, and degree of com-pletion. 6.6.  AFIT Systems Engineering Award. The Air Force Institute of Technology will submit nomina-tions to the Chief Scientist. Multiple nominations will be prioritized by AFIT before submission. TheChief Scientist may chose reviewers from the Air Staff, and Secretariat who will make recommenda-6AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 2005tions. The Chief Scientist will make the final decision after considering all inputs. Narratives will begraded by the following criteria (listed in priority order): Research quality, originality, importance inthe field, importance to the Air Force, and degree of completion. 7.  Award Announcements and Presentations.  7.1.  The Air Force Chief Scientist will: 7.1.1.  Notify the Chief of Staff and Secretary of the Air Force of the award winners. 7.1.2.  Notify the appropriate MAJCOM or FOA commanders of the winners. 7.1.3.  Arrange for the presentation of the awards at an appropriate time and place. 7.2.  The winners’ parent organizations will: 7.2.1.  Forward a color 5x7 photograph of the winners (head and shoulders with U.S. flag in back-ground) to AF/ST, no later than 30 days after notification. 7.2.2.  Forward one picture, diagram or drawing depicting the results of the achievement. Elec-tronic medium is acceptable, no later than 30 days after notification. 7.2.3.  Provide travel for winners of awards to presentations. 8.  Forms Adopted or Prescribed.  8.1.  AF Form 1001, Award Recommendation Transmittal 8.2.  AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award DR. MARK J. LEWIS Chief Scientist AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 20057GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1     References AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations AFMAN 37-123 (will be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records Defense Acquisition Guidebook, December 20, 2004 Department of Defense Technology Readiness Assessment Deskbook, September 2003 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF/ST—The office of the Air Force Chief Scientist AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps FOA—Field Operating Agency MAJCOM—Major Command USAFA—United States Air Force Academy R&D—Research and Development RDS—Records Disposition Schedule TRL—Technology Readiness Level Terms Advanced Technology Development—Includes the development of subsystems and components andefforts to integrate subsystems and components into system prototypes for field experiments or tests in asimulated environment. It includes concept and technology demonstration of components and subsystemsor system models. The results of this type of effort are proof of technological feasibility and assessment ofsubsystem and component operability and producibility rather than the development of hardware forservice use. Efforts in this category have a direct relevance to identified military needs, and generallyhave Technology Readiness levels of 4,5, or 6. Efforts in this category do not necessarily lead tosubsequent development or procurement phases, but should have the goal of moving out of Science andTechnology (S&T) and into the acquisition process. Advanced Technology Development is generallyidentified with Budget Activity 6.3. Applied Research—The systematic study to understand the means to meet a recognized and specificneed. It is a systematic expansion and application of knowledge to develop useful materials, devices, andsystems or methods. It may be oriented, ultimately, toward the design, development, and improvement ofprototypes and new processes to meet general mission requirements. It may translate promising basicresearch into solutions for broadly defined military needs, short of system development. It includesstudies, investigations, and non-system specific technology efforts. The dominant characteristic is thatapplied research is directed toward general military needs with a view toward developing and evaluating 8AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 2005the feasibility and practicality of proposed solutions and determining their parameters. Applied Researchis generally identified with Budget Activity 6.2. Basic Research—The systematic study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of thefundamental aspects of phenomena and of observable facts without specific applications towardsprocesses or products in mind. It includes scientific study and experimentation directed toward increasingfundamental knowledge and understanding in those fields of the physical, engineering, environmental,and life sciences related to long-term national security needs. It is farsighted high-payoff research thatprovides the basis for technological progress. Basic research may lead to: (a) subsequent applied researchand advanced technology developments in Defense-related technologies, and (b) new and improvedmilitary functional capabilities in areas such as communications, detection, tracking, surveillance,propulsion, mobility, guidance and control, navigation, energy conversion, materials and structures, andpersonnel support. Basic Research is generally identified with budget activity 6.1. Budget Activity—RDT&E funding is sub-divided into seven separate activities denoted by accountnumbers. These are: basic research (6.1); applied research (6.2); advanced technology development (6.3);advanced component development and prototypes (6.4); system development and demonstration (6.5);RDT&E management support (6.6); and operational systems development (6.7). The Air Force’s Scienceand Technology (S&T) Program consists of the 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 accounts. Refereed Scientific Journal—Publications reviewed by "expert readers" or referees prior to thepublication of the material. After reading and evaluating the material, the referee informs the publisher ifthe document should be published or if any changes should be made prior to publication. Refereedmaterials are also referred to as Peer Reviewed. Systems Engineering—The overarching process that a program team applies to transition from a statedcapability need to an operationally effective and suitable system. Systems engineering encompasses theapplication of systems engineering processes across the acquisition life cycle (adapted to each and everyphase) and is intended to be the integrating mechanism for balanced solutions addressing capabilityneeds, design considerations, and constraints, as well as limitations imposed by technology, budget, andschedule. The systems engineering processes are applied early in concept definition, and thencontinuously throughout the total life cycle. Technology Readiness Level (TRL)—A measure of technical maturity which enables consistent,uniform discussions across different types of technologies. There are nine levels of TRLs: TRL 1: basicprinciples observed and reported, TRL 2: technology concept or application formulated, TRL 3:analytical and experimental critical function or characteristic proof of concept, TRL 4: component orbreadboard validation in laboratory environment, TRL 5: component or breadboard validation in relevantenvironment, TRL 6-system/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment,TRL 7: system prototype demonstration in an operational environment, TRL 8: actual system completedand qualified through test and demonstration, TRL 9: actual system proven through successful missionoperations. More complete definitions and examples can be found in the Defense Acquisition Guidebookand the DoD Technology Readiness Assessment Deskbook. Technology Transition—The transfer of technology from the technology developer to a technologyrecipient. Generally, this involves moving the technology to a higher technology readiness level or a moremilitary-specific activity. Transition is ultimately successful upon incorporation into a system. AFI36-2843   14 APRIL 2005Table A1.1.  Addresses. HQ USAF/ST1075 Air Force PentagonWashington, DC 20330-1075 9