 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2855 14 SEPTEMBER 2015 Personnel JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL AWARDS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   HQ AF/JAX  Supersedes:   AFI 36-2855, 6 August 2012 Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 9   This  instruction  implements  AFPD  36-28,  Awards  and  Decorations  Programs,  and  describes The  Judge  Advocate  General  (TJAG)  awards  presented  to  individuals  in  recognition  of  their outstanding  service  or  contributions  to  The  Judge  Advocate  General’s  Corps  (TJAGC).    It describes  the  annual  and  extraordinary  achievement  awards  and  establishes  nomination procedures.  This instruction applies to all military members and civilian employees of TJAGC, including Active Duty (AD), Air Reserve Component (ARC), and Air National Guard (ANG).   In  collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve  (AF/RE)  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (AF/A1)  develops  policy  for  the  Air  Force  Judge  Advocate  General  Awards.  This  publication may  be  supplemented  at  any  level;  all  MAJCOM  level  supplements  must  be  approved  by  the Human Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act  of  1974.    5  U.S.  Code  Section  3301,  10  U.S.  Code  Section  806,  and  DoD  Instruction 1348.33,  Military  Awards  Program,  authorize  collection  and  maintenance  of  the  information; Privacy  Act  Systems  of  Records  Notice,  F051  AFJA  C,  Judge  Advocate  Personnel  Records, applies.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Forms 847 through appropriate chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System (AFRIMS).    The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product, commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply  endorsement  by  the  Air  Force.    The   2  AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015 authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include the revision of eligibility criteria. 1.  Overview.  This  instruction  establishes  guidance  and  nomination  procedures  for  TJAGC Awards Program.  TJAGC units at all levels, including ANG and ARC units, comply with this publication to nominate individuals in recognition of their outstanding service or contributions to TJAGC and the Air Force. 1.1.  Responsibilities. 1.1.1.  The Judge Advocate General (TJAG). 1.1.1.1.  Establishes  guidance  and  nomination  procedures  for  TJAGC  Awards Program. 1.1.1.2.  Appoints a board for each annual award. 1.1.1.3.  Selects annual award winners. 1.1.2.  AF/JAX, Professional Development Directorate 1.1.2.1.  Manages the TJAGC Awards Program. 1.1.2.2.  Provides  TJAG’s  guidance  and  nomination  procedures  for  TJAGC  Awards Program to TJAGC. 2.  Description of the Annual Awards. 2.1.  Outstanding  Young  Judge  Advocate  of  the  Year  Award  (Albert  M.  Kuhfeld Award).    Brigadier  General  and  Mrs.  Richard  C.  Hagan,  USAFR,  Retired,  established  this award in honor of the late Major General Albert M. Kuhfeld, USAF, Retired, who formerly held  the  position  of  TJAG.    The  annual  winner  is  a  RegAF  officer  selected  as  the  most outstanding  young  judge  advocate  of  the  year  based  on  demonstrated  excellence,  initiative, leadership,  attorney/paralegal  partnerships,  external  collaboration,  and  devotion  to  duty.  Eligible candidates are RegAF judge advocates serving in the grade of major or captain as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given. 2.2.  Outstanding  Air  Reserve  Component  Judge  Advocate  of  the  Year  Award (Reginald  C.  Harmon  Award).    This  award  honors  Major  General  Reginald  C.  Harmon, USAF,  Retired,  who  formerly  held  the  position  of  TJAG.    The  annual  winner  is  an  officer selected as the most outstanding ARC judge advocate based on training accomplishments or contributions to mission support, exhibition of leadership in contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or civilian community, attorney/paralegal partnerships, external  collaboration,  and  enrollment in  off-duty  programs  of  professional  self-AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015   3  improvement.    Eligible  candidates  are  ARC  judge  advocates  in  the  grade  of  lieutenant colonel  or  below  as  of  31  December  of  the  calendar  year  for  which  the  award  is  given.  Candidates  must  not  have  served  on  an  Active  Guard  Reserve  (AGR)  tour  during  the calendar year for which the award is given.  On the AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, the  first  heading  should  be  “Total  Number  of  Points  Earned”  for  the  period  of  the  award, followed by a break-down of the nominee’s points earned from AD, Inactive Duty Training, and  the  Air  Force  Institute  for  Advanced  Distributed  Learning.    The  substantive  portion  of the  nomination  should  reflect  the  nominee’s  total  contributions  during  the  period  of  the award and not merely concentrate on one significant event. 2.3.  Outstanding  Civilian  Attorney  of  the  Year  Award  (James  O.  Wrightson,  Jr., Award).    Mr.  John  A.  Everhard  established  this  award  in  memory  of  Mr.  James  O. Wrightson, Jr., who formerly held the position of Chief, Military Affairs Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General, USAF.  The annual winner is a civilian employee selected as the  most  outstanding  civilian  attorney  of  the  year  based  upon  demonstrated  excellence, initiative,  attorney/paralegal  partnerships,  external  collaboration,  and  devotion  to  duty.  Eligible candidates are civilian attorneys employed by or serving with TJAGC. 2.4.  Outstanding  Paralegal  Airman  of  the  Year  Award  (Thomas  Castleman Award).  This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Thomas Castleman, USAF, Retired, the third Senior Paralegal Manager to TJAG and the only Senior Paralegal Manager to serve in the position for more than five years.  The annual winner is a RegAF airman selected as the most  outstanding  paralegal  airman  of  the  year  based  upon  demonstrated  excellence, initiative,  attorney/paralegal  partnerships,  external  collaboration,  devotion  to  duty,  and technical skill.  Eligible candidates are RegAF paralegals who have obtained their five skill level and are in the grade of senior airman or below as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given. 2.5.  Outstanding  Noncommissioned  Officer  Paralegal  of  the  Year  Award  (Steve Swigonski  Award).  This  award  honors  Chief  Master  Sergeant  Steve  Swigonski,  USAF, Retired, the first Special Assistant for Legal Airman Affairs to TJAG.  The annual winner is a RegAF noncommissioned officer (NCO) selected as the most outstanding paralegal  NCO of  the  year  based  upon  demonstrated  excellence,  initiative,  leadership,  attorney/paralegal partnerships,  external  collaboration,  and  technical  skill.    Eligible  candidates  are  RegAF paralegals  who  have  obtained,  at  a  minimum,  their  five  skill  level  and  are  in  the  grade  of technical  sergeant  or  staff  sergeant  as  of  31  December  of  the  calendar  year  for  which  the award is given. 2.6.  Outstanding  Paralegal  Senior  Noncommissioned  Officer  of  the  Year  Award (Karen Yates-Popwell Award).  This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Karen E. Yates-Popwell, USAF, Retired, the eighth  Senior Paralegal  Manager to  TJAG and first  woman to hold the position.  The annual winner is a RegAF senior noncommissioned officer (SNCO) selected  as  the  most  outstanding  paralegal  SNCO  of  the  year  based  upon  demonstrated excellence,  superior leadership,  attorney/paralegal  partnerships,  external collaboration, and management  skills.   Eligible  candidates  are RegAF paralegals  serving in the grade of senior master sergeant or master sergeant as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given. initiative,   4  AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015 2.7.  Outstanding  Air  Reserve  Component  Paralegal  of  the  Year  Award  (David Westbrook  /Andrew  Stadler  Award).  This  award  honors  Chief  Master  Sergeant  David Westbrook, USAFR, Retired, a former senior  Individual  Mobilization Augmentee paralegal to  the  General  Law  Division,  Office  of  The  Judge  Advocate  General,  USAF  and  Chief Master  Sergeant  Andrew  Stadler,  USAFR,  Retired,  a  former  Air  National  Guard  Paralegal Career Field Manager.  The annual winners are an ARC NCO or airman and an ARC SNCO selected as the most outstanding paralegals of the year. in 2.7.1.  (Westbrook)  The ARC NCO or airman award will be based upon demonstrated superior  initiative,  technical  skill,  training  accomplishments  or  contribution  to  mission support,  exhibition  of  leadership  qualities  in  contributing  to  civic,  cultural,  or professional  activities the  military  or  civilian  community,  attorney/paralegal partnerships, external collaboration, and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-improvement.    Eligible  candidates  are  ARC  paralegals  in  the  grade  of  technical sergeant and below, who have not served on an Active Guard Reserve (AGR) tour during the calendar year for which the award is given.  On the AF Form 1206, the first heading should  be  “Total  Number  of  Points  Earned”  for  the  period  of  the  award,  followed  by  a break-down of the nominee’s points earned from AD, Inactive Duty Training, and the Air Force  Institute  for  Advanced  Distributed  Learning.    The  substantive  portion  of  the nomination  should  reflect  the  nominee’s  total  contributions  during  the  period  of  the award and not merely concentrate on one significant event. in 2.7.2.  (Stadler)  The ARC SNCO award will be based upon training accomplishments or contributions  to  mission  support,  exhibition  of  leadership  in  contributing  to  civic, cultural,  or  professional  activities the  military  or  civilian  community, attorney/paralegal  partnerships,  external  collaboration,  management  skills,  and enrollment  in  off-duty  programs  of  professional  self-improvement.    Eligible  candidates are ARC  paralegals  in  the grade of senior master sergeant  or master sergeant  who have not  served  on  an  Active  Guard  Reserve  (AGR)  tour  during  the  calendar  year  for  which the award is given.  On the AF Form 1206, the first heading should be “Total Number of Points Earned” for the period of the award, followed by a break-down of the nominee’s points earned from AD, Inactive Duty Training, and the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed  Learning.    The  substantive  portion  of  the  nomination  should  reflect  the nominee’s total contributions during the period of the award and not merely concentrate on one significant event. 2.8.  Outstanding Legal Service Civilian of the Year Award (Harold R.  Vague Award).  This award honors Major General Harold R. Vague, USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of TJAG.  The annual winner is a civilian employee selected as the most outstanding employee  based  upon  demonstrated  excellence,  initiative,  attorney/paralegal  partnerships, external  collaboration,  and  devotion  to  duty.    Eligible  candidates  are  civilians,  excluding attorneys,  employed  by  or  serving  with  TJAGC  and  providing  legal  and/or  administrative support to TJAGC’s legal offices.  Give special consideration to individuals who develop or improve  systems,  programs,  or  procedures  that  enhance  management  efficiency  or  cost-effectiveness for Air Force legal programs. 2.9.  Outstanding  Senior  Attorney  Award  (Stuart  R.  Reichart  Award).    This  award honors Mr. Stuart R. Reichart, who formerly held the position of General Counsel of the Air Force.    It  is  presented  annually  by  the  Air  Force  Association  (AFA)  and  recognizes  the AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015   5  initiative, outstanding  legal  achievements  of  a  senior  Air  Force  attorney.    The  award  honors demonstrated  excellence  and leadership  and  management  skills,  and professionalism in the practice of law.  Eligible candidates are attorneys with at least 14 years of service with the Department of Defense, with the most recent 7 years as a judge advocate (RegAF or ARC) or civilian attorney, or both, for the Air Force.  The last day for meeting the eligibility  requirements  is  31  December  of  the  calendar  year  for  which  the  award  is  given.  Although  nominations  should  cite  specific  personal  achievements,  the  award  is  for continuous contributions throughout a career of federal service, not a single accomplishment. 3.  Preparing Nominations for Annual Awards. 3.1.  MAJCOMs and the Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA).  MAJCOMs and AFLOA  will  establish  their  own  procedures  to  select  command/organizational  nominees.  Each MAJCOM and AFLOA may submit one nomination per award category, except for the Reichart Award.  There is no limit on the number of Reichart Award nominations that may be  submitted  –  all  Reichart  Award  nominations  satisfying  the  award  criteria  shall  be forwarded to AF/JAX to be considered at the TJAG annual awards boards. 3.1.1.  All  Other  Organizations.  All  other  field  operating  agencies,  other  direct reporting units, and all other organizations not specified above route their nominations to AF/JAX  to  compete  at  the  Headquarters  Centralized  Board.    This  centralized  board  is designed to provide a more level playing field among all nominees; it will meet prior to the  TJAG  annual  awards  boards  and  will  forward  one  nomination  per  award  category, except  for  the  Reichert  Award,  for  which  all  nominations  satisfying  the  award  criteria will be considered at the TJAG annual award boards. 3.1.2.  TJAGC  Annual  Awards  Boards.  The  nominations  submitted  by  each MAJCOM and AFLOA  will compete at  the TJAG annual  awards boards.  The selected nominations from the Headquarters Centralized Board will compete at the TJAG annual awards  boards  against  the  nominations  submitted  by  each  MAJCOM  and  AFLOA.  AF/JAX is the OPR for the Headquarters Centralized Board. 3.2.  Limitations on Timeframe of Achievements.  Limit nominations for all annual awards in  paragraph  2,  except  the  Reichart  Award,  to  activities  occurring  during  the  calendar  year for  which  the  award  is  given.    You  may  highlight  previous  significant  achievements  that establish  a  consistent  record  of  exemplary  performance;  however,  the  primary  focus  of  the nomination must remain on the year for which the award is given. 3.3.  Attorney/Paralegal  Partnerships  Criterion.  For  all  annual  awards,  emphasize  the nominee’s  accomplishments  and  how  those  accomplishments  impacted  the  mission,  to include  (except  in  the  case  of  the  Reichart  Award)  how  attorney/paralegal  partnerships through collaboration and effective utilization of individual skills was used during the award period  in  the  delivery  of  legal  services.    Exceptions  to  the  attorney/paralegal  partnerships criteria  are  appropriate  only  when  sufficient  justification  substantiates  the  impossibility  of attorney/paralegal partnerships. 4.  Processing Nomination for Annual Awards. 4.1.  Suspense Date.  The suspense for all nominations is 1 April annually, or if 1 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter.  Each MAJCOM, AFLOA, and each organization covered by the Headquarters Centralized Board process may submit one nomination for each   6  AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015 annual  award  category;  however,  any  level  of  command  may  submit  multiple  nominations for the Reichart Award.  Submit nominations to AF/JAX through judge advocate channels. 4.2.  Reichart  Award:  A  Reichart  Award  nomination  package  is  submitted  in  physical form.  Mail six (6) copies of each nomination package to AF/JAX. 4.2.1.  Attach  the  nomination  package  in  a  standard  brown  file  folder  with  two-hole punch  fasteners.    Do  not  use  staples,  binders,  plastic  page  covers,  paper  clips,  or  any other  fastening.    Place  a  white  label  on  the  front  of  each  folder  with  the  following information  in  all  capital  letters:    nominee’s  full  name  and  rank  on  the  first  line,  the annual award category on the second line, and the nominating MAJCOM (or appropriate organization) on the third line. 4.2.2.  On  the  left  side  of  the  open  folder,  from  top  to  bottom,  assemble  the  following without tabs or dividers: 4.2.2.1.  Nomination  Form.  Submit  one  AF  Form  1206  using  Forms  Viewer™  (or successor)  software,  in  bullet  format,  not  more  than  one  page  in  length  (front  side only).    Nominations  for  the  Reichart  Award  only  may  utilize  the  front  and  reverse sides of the AF Form 1206.  If the reverse side of the Form is used, it must be printed head-to-foot for the nomination package.  List the nominee’s accomplishments using the award criteria set out in the description of each annual award, above.  Highlight the  headings  by  typing  them  in  all  capital  letters,  i.e.,  DEMONSTRATED EXCELLENCE  AND INITIATIVE,  LEADERSHIP  AND  MANAGEMENT SKILLS, and PROFESSIONALISM IN THE PRACTICE OF LAW.  Ensure that no text  is  concealed  by  fasteners.    The  name  block  on  the  Form  must  also  include  the nominee’s “go by” name in parentheses. 4.2.2.2.  Indorsements.  Type the name and rank of the initiating commander in  the block  on  the  AF  Form  1206  entitled  “Rank/Name  of  Unit  Commander”.    The commander should not sign the nomination.  Ensure the AF Form 1206 contains the commander’s  telephone  number.    No  indorsement  memoranda  should  be  included and it will not be considered. 4.2.2.3.  Biographical  Sketch.  Include  a  one-page  biographical  sketch  in  narrative format.  Do not submit official Air Force biographies.  MAJCOM, AFLOA, and the Headquarters  Centralized  Board  nominees  must  forward  one  official  military photograph, head and shoulders shot, 8 1/2” by 11”, to AF/JAX by 15 April annually, or if 15 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter. 4.2.2.4.  Performance  Reports.    On  the  right  flap  of  the  open  folder,  from  top  to bottom,  in  reverse  chronological  order,  printed  head-to-foot,  include  copies  of  all officer  performance  reports  or  civilian  performance  appraisals.    Do  not  use  tabs  or dividers. 4.2.2.5.  Draft  Citation.  All  packages  must  include  a  draft  citation  submitted electronically in Microsoft Word™ format to AF/JAX by 15 April annually, or if 15 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter.  The draft citation should be no more than 70 words. AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015   7  4.3.  All Other Annual Awards/Achievement Awards:  All other Annual and Achievement Award nomination packages are submitted electronically to AF/JAX. 4.3.1.  Attach the following: 4.3.1.1.  Nomination  Form.  Submit  one  AF  Form  1206  prepared  using  Forms Viewer™ (or successor) software, in bullet format, not more than one page in length (front side only).  List the nominee’s accomplishments using the award criteria set out in  the  description  of  each  annual  award,  above.    Highlight  the  headings  by  typing them  in  all  capital  letters.    For  example,  headings  for  a  Kuhfeld  Award  nomination should  be:    DEMONSTRATED  EXCELLENCE,  INITIATIVE,  LEADERSHIP, ATTORNEY/PARALEGAL EXTERNAL COLLABORATION.  The name block on the IMT must also include the nominee’s “go by” name in parentheses. PARTNERSHIPS, and 4.3.1.2.  Indorsements.  Type the name and rank of the initiating commander in  the block  on  the  AF  FORM  1206  entitled  “Rank/Name  of  Unit  Commander”.    The commander should not sign the nomination.  Ensure the AF Form 1206 contains the commander’s  telephone  number.    No  indorsement  memoranda  should  be  included; such memoranda will not be considered. 4.3.1.3.  Biographical  Sketch.  Include  a  one-page  biographical  sketch  in  narrative format prepared using Microsoft Word™ file format.  Do not submit an official Air Force  biography.    For  the  Harmon,  Westbrook,  and  Stadler  awards,  ensure  that  the biographical sketch details what, if any, civilian employment the nominee performs, any  significant  community  involvement,  or  any  enrollment  in  off-duty  programs  of professional  self-improvement. the  Headquarters Centralized Board nominees must forward one official military photograph, head and shoulders shot, 81/2” by 11”, to AF/JAX by 15 April annually, or if 15 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter.   MAJCOM,  AFLOA,  and 4.3.1.4.  Draft  Citation.  All  packages  must  include  a  draft  citation  submitted electronically in Microsoft Word™ format to AF/JAX by 15 April annually, or if 15 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter. 5.  Additional Achievement Awards. 5.1.  Special Service Award.  This award recognizes outstanding individual contributions to TJAGC.    It  may  be  presented  to  a  member  of  the  Corps,  a  military  member  outside  the Corps,  or  a  member  of  the  civilian  community.    TJAG  is  the  approval  authority  for  the award.  Candidates should be nominated within 90 days of their outstanding contribution to the Corps.  Nominations may be submitted from any source at any time throughout the year; no  particular  format  is  required.    Nominations  originating  within  TJAGC  should  be forwarded  through  respective  MAJCOM  staff  judge  advocates  (or  equivalent),  for coordination, to AF/JAX. 5.2.  Unsung Hero Award (Olan G.  Waldrop, Jr., Award).  This award honors Brigadier General Olan G. Waldrop, Jr., USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of Staff Judge Advocate, Air Force Materiel Command.  It recognizes individuals who demonstrate selfless devotion  to  duty,  support  to  others,  and  dedication  to  TJAGC.    Nominations  may  be submitted  from  any  source;  no  particular  format  is  required.    The  suspense  for  all   8  AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015 nominations is 1 April annually, or if 1 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter.  Nominations  should  be  forwarded  through  respective  MAJCOM  staff  judge  advocates  (or equivalent), for coordination, to AF/JAX.  TJAG will select any recipient or recipients. 5.3.  Joy Dunlap Family Service Award.  This award honors Mrs. Joy Dunlap’s service to the  TJAGC  family.    Ms.  Dunlap’s  spouse,  Major  General  Charles  J.  Dunlap,  Jr.,  USAF, Retired, formerly held  the position of the Deputy Judge Advocate General.    It  recognizes a TJAGC family member who, through contribution of his or her time and talent, has made a significant  contribution  to  the  strength,  health  and  welfare  of  the  TJAGC  family.    The suspense  for  all  nominations  is  1  April  annually,  or  if  1  April  falls  on  a  weekend,  the  first duty  day  thereafter.    Nominations  should  be  forwarded  through  respective  MAJCOM  staff judge advocates (or equivalent), for coordination, to AF/JAX.  TJAG will select any recipient or recipients. 6.  Recognition. 6.1.  Except  for  the  Special  Service  Award,  individuals  are  ineligible  to  receive  the  same TJAG award covered in this instruction more than once. 6.2.  Except  for  the  Special  Service  Award,  whenever  possible  TJAG  will  present  award certificates  and  plaques  to  each  winner  at  an  appropriate  event.    This  authority  may  be delegated  at  TJAG’s  discretion.    Plaques  recognizing  the  winners  in  each  category  are displayed at the Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School. 6.3.  Military recipients of the annual awards covered in Paragraph 2 may wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon; civilian recipients may wear the lapel pin.  CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE, Lt Gen, USAF The Judge Advocate General AFI36-2855  14 SEPTEMBER 2015   9  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  ATTACHMENT 1 References Title 5 U.S.C., Section 3301 Title 10 U.S.C., Section 806 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 9 May 2014 DoDI 1348.33, Military Awards Program, 23 November 2010 (incorporating Change 3, 10 July 2014) Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 1 June 2001 AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, 1 July 2000 Abbreviations and Acronyms  AD—A military individual in the status of active Duty AFA—Air Force Association AF/JA—Office of The Judge Advocate General AF/JAX—Office of The Judge Advocate General, Professional Development Directorate AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency AGR—Active Guard Reserve ARC—Air Reserve Component IMT—Information Management Tool MAJCOM—Major Command NCO—Noncommissioned Officer SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RegAF—Regular Air Force TJAG—The Judge Advocate General TJAGC—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps USAF—United States Air Force USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve  