 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-9010 24 JULY 2012 Civil Engineering  MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING OF AIR FORCE SPACE AND BUILDING SERVICES IN OSD ASSIGNED FACILITIES AND IN THE WASHINGTON DC AREA COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   SAF/AAO  Supersedes:   AFI32-9010, 27 January 2011 Certified by: SAF/AA (Mr. Tim Beyland) Pages: 29   This  Instruction  implements:  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  5305.5,  Space  Management  Procedures, National  Capital  Region;  DoDI  5030.60,  Reimbursable  Work  Authorization  Procedures  for Washington  Headquarters  Services  (WHS)-Operated  Facilities;  Office  of  the  Secretary  of Defense  (OSD)  Administrative  Instruction  (AI)  30,  Force  Protection  of  the  Pentagon Reservation;  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD)  Administrative  Instruction  (AI)  88 Pentagon  Reservation  Vehicle  Parking  Program;  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD) Administrative Instruction (AI) 103, Exhibits, Artwork and Signs on the Pentagon Reservation; AF  publication  AFPD32-90  Real  Property  Asset  Management    and  Office  of  the  Secretary  of Defense  (OSD)  Administrative  Instruction  (AI)  112,  Washington  Headquarters  Services  Fire Regulations  (WHSFRs).    This  Instruction  explains  how  to  acquire,  control,  and  make  effective use  of  federally-owned  and  federally-leased  facility  space  by  Department  of  the  AF  offices located  in  the  Washington,  DC  area;  provides  guidance  for  making  building  alterations  and moving offices within HQ, Department of the AF (HAF); provides guidance and procedures for relocating  AF  activities  to  or  within  the  Washington,  DC  area  or  increasing  the  AF  manpower authorizations  within  the  Washington,  DC  area;  provides  guidance  for  obtaining  approval  of displays  in  the  Pentagon;  and,  discusses  the  implementation  of  the  WHS  Fire  Regulations  in WHS-controlled facilities.  This instruction applies to Air Force, AF Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this Instruction to the Operations  Directorate,  Office  of  the  Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  AF (SAF/AAO) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Ensure that all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  Instruction  are  maintained  in accordance  with  AF  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in   2  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 accordance  with the  AF  Records  Disposition https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.   Schedule (RDS) located at SUMMARY OF CHANGES This Instruction removes references to Administrative Space Reporting as DoD rescinded DoDI 5305.4,  removed  references  to  DoDI  5305.6  as  DoD  also  rescinded  this  instruction,  removed references  to  Pentagon  Renovation  (paragraph  11  entirely  and  other  locations  throughout  the AFI) as that program is complete, rearranged the paragraphs to have like topics collocated, added clarification  to  requests  for  short  term,  off  site  conference  space  in  and  outside  the  National Capital  Region  (NCR),  added  the  new  Secretary  of  Defense  (SecDef)  requirement  for offices/organizations to consider the cost of conferences and ceremonies, updated organizational names due to a WHS and SAF/AA reorganization and added the two new sections covering the WHS Fire Regulations and Pentagon parking.  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. Responsibility for Space Matters.   ..........................................................................  Space Coordination, Reallocation and Utilization Board (SCRUB).   ....................  Requests for Space.   ................................................................................................  AF Activities Relocating to or Within the Washington DC Area:   ........................  Moving Offices:   .....................................................................................................  Realignment, Downsizing or Elimination of AF Programs and/or Organizations:    Surveying Space.   ...................................................................................................  Space Utilization:   ...................................................................................................  Space Utilization:   ...................................................................................................  Requests for Alterations/Furnishings.   ....................................................................  Funding of Office Space Alterations and Other Reimbursable Services.   ..............  Overtime Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) and Lighting.   ......  Appeals.   .................................................................................................................  Cable Television (CATV) ROE:   ............................................................................  AF Hallway Displays in the Pentagon.   ..................................................................  Reserving Airman‘s Hall in the Pentagon.   ............................................................  17.  WHS Fire Regulations, Roles and Responsibilities.   ..............................................  18. Pentagon Reservation Parking.   ..............................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—SPACE ALLOWANCE TABLE      3 3 4 5 6 7 7 7 9 11 11 12 12 12 13 17 19 19 22 28 AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   3  1.  Responsibility  for  Space  Matters.  SAF/AAO  (previously  SAF/AAF)    is  the  Space Coordinator for General Services Administration (GSA)-owned and GSA-leased space, Pentagon space controlled by OSD Washington Headquarters Services (WHS) and office space assigned to the AF in the Washington, DC area, and office space assigned to the HAF at Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility-Washington (JBAN), and Joint Base Anacostia Bolling (JBAB).  SAF/AAO will: 1.1.  Conduct  and  coordinate  all  office  space  requirements  and  utilization  surveys  and  take necessary  action  to  insure  full  and  efficient  use  of  assigned  administrative  space  including releasing Pentagon/leased space assigned by WHS to the AF when AF programs are curtailed or discontinued. 1.2.  Prepare  and  submit  documentation  with  justification  and  certification  for  initial, expansion, and continuing need leased space requests and requirements to WHS. 1.3.  Review and make changes to  floor plans to  adjust interior arrangements or modify the physical layout of an existing HAF facility, so the space may be used more efficiently. This includes  rearranging  or  installing  interior  partitions,  air  conditioning,  heating  systems, electrical facilities, etc., for interior modifications to spaces at the Pentagon, JBAN, JBAB, or leased space. 1.4.  Maintain  current  floor  space  requirements  documents  for  all  tenant  organizations.  The documents  use  current,  funded  manpower  billets,  floor  space  allowances,  and  current  floor space occupied to determine whether organizations are above, below or at their correct space authorization.  The  Facility  Space  Executive  Oversight  Board  (EOB)  uses  the  space requirements  documents  to  formulate  sensible  and  fair  solutions  to  valid  office  space requests. 2.  Space  Coordination,  Reallocation  and  Utilization  Board  (SCRUB).  The  SCRUB  was established  in  March  1991  by  joint  order  of  SAF/US  and  AF/CV.    The  SCRUB  is  chaired  by SAF/AAO. 2.1.  Each  HAF  two-letter/digit  office,  large  Field  Operating  Agencies  (FOAs)  and  Direct Reporting  Units  (DRUs)  in  the  Washington,  DC  area  (e.g.,  AFDW)  must  appoint  an individual to serve as a SCRUB member.  Provide SAF/AAO with the name of a primary and alternate SCRUB member. 2.2.  The  purpose  of  the  SCRUB  is  to  advise  the  EOB  on  space  allocation  proposals.    A summary of the duties and responsibilities of SCRUB members follows: 2.2.1.  Represents their HAF two-letter/digit office, FOA or DRU in  all negotiations for space adjustments and maintains space inventory sheets. 2.2.2.  Serves as primary conduit of renovation/alteration and building (Pentagon, JBAN, JBAB and leased space) information to and from their organization. 2.2.3.  Collects and provides space allocation and renovation planning data upon request. 2.2.4.  Coordinates organization. renovation related  move  planning  and  execution for their 2.2.5.  Serves  on  space  allocation/utilization,  renovation  planning  and  problem  solving teams (e.g., Process Action Teams) with other SCRUB members.   4  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 2.2.6.  On  behalf  of  the  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  heads  or  commanders,  reviews  and approves  or  disapproves  the  work  order  submitted  at  the  on-line  system  via http://hafap071/fminteract/ which forwards approved requests to SAF/AAO for action. 2.2.7.  Notifies  SAF/AAO  of  internal  organizational  changes  that  result  in  room assignment and office symbol changes. 3.  Requests  for  Space.  DoDI  5305.5  grants  authority  only  to  Washington  Headquarters Services  (WHS)  to  acquire  administrative  space  through  the  General  Services  Administration (GSA) or others and subsequently assigning, withdrawing and reassigning such space with DoD. (see AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property, July 27, 1994).  Title 10 United States Code, Sections 9780 and 18233, grants the Secretary of the Air Force authority to acquire by lease,   buildings in the Washington, DC area for the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserves (AFR).  No AF organization has authority to enter into any office space lease agreement within the Washington, DC area or include a line item in a services statement of work for the ―provision of office space‖ per an Under Secretary of Defense Memo, Contracts for Services, March 2, 2007. 3.1.  SCRUB member submits a request for additional permanent space to SAF/AAO.  Each request  must  be  based  on  the  space  allowances  listed  in  Attachment  2,  and  must  be accompanied  by  Department  of  Defense  (DD)  Form  1450,  DoD  Space  Requirements  Data Part  I  –  Summary,  DD  Form  1450-1,  DoD  Space  Requirements  Data  Part  II  -  Detailed Space  Requirements,  a  copy  of  the  organization‘s  most  current  Extended  Unit  Manpower Document  (UMD),  a  telephone  roster,  and  for  contractors,  a  copy  of  their  contract, specifically  the  contract  number,  the  contract  dates,  and  the  section  of  the  contract  which specifies  that  the  Government  will  provide  contractors  with  office  space.    All  AF organizations  requesting  space  in  the  Washington,  DC  area  to  include  the  Pentagon,  leased space,  JBAB  and  JBAN  will  comply  with  AF  Pentagon  space  standards.    HAF  two-letter/digit  offices  expanding  or  modifying  existing  organizations  should  review  all  space assigned to those elements within their organizations and make internal adjustments of office space before requesting additional space.  Mutual exchange of space between organizations is  encouraged.    Such  exchanges  must  be  coordinated  and  validated  by  SAF/AAO  and  the EOB. 3.2.  Requests for short-term, off-base conference space or space for seminars: 3.2.1.  In  the  NCR,  requests  for  short-term,  off-base  conference  space  or  space  for seminars  must  be  approved  by  the  Washington  Headquarters  Services  –  authority delegated  to  them  by  the  General  Service  Administration,  Region  11  –  as  part  of  the Conference  approval  process,  regardless  of  the  approval  authority.    The  approval authority  shall  submit  the  short-term,  off-base  conference  space  or  space  for  seminars request  to  SAF/AAO  more  than  60  days  in  advance  of  the  date  needed  to  book/reserve the  event,  as  WHS  has  to  have  it  60  days  in  advance  for  approval  IAW  Federal Management  Regulations  (FMR).    See  the  staffing  and  information  requirements  at  the HAF  Task  Management  Tool  (http://wtm.afncr.af.mil/HAF/loader.aspx),  under  HAF Templates,  Staffing  Items,  eSSS  Final  Approval  Conference  Request.    SAF/AAO  will submit the package to WHS, Facilities Services Directorate, Space Portfolio Management Division (WHS FSD SPMD) for continued processing IAW FMR for conference rooms within  the  NCR.    Package  will  include  at  least  three  quotes  on  the  venue‘s  letter  head specifically  detailing  the  cost  of  the  conference  room  and  all  costs  associated  with  the AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   5  conference room.  (GSA‘s Region 11 delegates approval authority annually to SPMD for requests in the NCR.)  Upon receipt of SPMD‘s approval, SAF/AAO will forward a copy of the ―approved‖ space request document to the requesting office.  The requesting office may  then  submit  their  requirement  with  a  copy  of  the  Market  Survey  results  to  their office supplies/supply services provider for continued processing (contracting action). 4.  AF Activities Relocating to or Within the Washington DC Area: 4.1.  Congressional  and  AF  Limitations.    The  Congress  closely  scrutinizes  the  size  of  the Service  population  in  the  Washington,  DC  area,  the  amount  of  leased  space,  and  space availability  on  military  installations.    Since  1991,  Department  of  Defense  Appropriations Acts has limited the use of funds to relocate an organization, unit or activity to or within the Washington,  DC  area  (e.g.,  PL  110-116,  Section  8019).    Currently,  the  limitation  is $500,000.    For  waivers  to  this  restriction,  SecDef  must  certify  to  the  House  and  Senate Appropriations  Committee  chairs  that  the  relocation  is  in  the  ―best  interest  of  the Government.‖  Since the AF has a limited supply of administrative space in the Washington, DC area, allocation of that space must be performed judiciously according to mission needs.  The AF will limit the number of organizations and manpower authorizations assigned within the Washington, DC area to the absolute minimum.  AF activities reside in the Washington, DC area when they: 4.1.1.  Have been so directed to meet the needs of the President, the Congress, or military department heads. 4.1.2.  Establish national policies or develop programs for nationwide application. 4.1.3.  Coordinate,  work,  or  communicate  with  other  headquarters  agencies,  the Congress, or other Government organizations located in the Washington DC area. 4.1.4.  Provide direct support to the HAF. 4.2.  Relocation  Requirements:    AF  activities  proposing  to  relocate  to  or  within  the Washington,  DC  area  or  increase  the  AF  manpower  authorizations  within  the  Washington, DC area must coordinate their request through their command channels.  Submit requests to the  sponsoring  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  that  prepares  the  package  and  submits  it  to SAF/AA.  Include the following: 4.2.1.  Level of the organization, such as, flight, squadron, office. 4.2.2.  Extent of adverse impacts experienced at present location. 4.2.3.  Reason for relocating to the Washington, DC area (see paragraph 4.1.). 4.2.4.  Savings anticipated by relocating. 4.2.5.  Estimated  cost  of  the  move.    If  the  total  relocation  cost  exceeds  $500,000,  the sponsoring HAF two-letter/digit office is responsible for providing required justifications and statements for the AF to obtain the certification from the SECDEF to the House and Senate  Appropriations  Committee  chairs  that  the  move  is  in  the  best  interest  of  the Government.  SAF/LL and SAF/FMBL can provide assistance in this process. 4.2.6.  Amount of square feet the activity needs. 4.2.7.  Number of manpower authorizations by grade and AF Specialty Code (AFSC).   6  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 4.2.8.  Number  of  people  relocating  with  the  grades  and  AFSCs.    (For  the  AF  Reserve Component, estimate number of people relocating, excluding grades and specialty codes.) 4.3.  Responsibilities/Procedures: 4.3.1.  When  a  requirement  surfaces  to  bring  a  new  organization  into  or  to  move  an organization  within at safaao.workflow@pentagon.af.mil  to  start  the  fact  finding  process  and  investigate beddown  options.    When  contacting  SAF/AAO  bring  forth  the  organization‘s  mission, vision, UMD/positions listing, and adjacency needs. the  Washington,  DC SAF/AAO area, contact 4.3.2.  The sponsoring HAF two-letter/digit office prepares all documentation/requests to relocate  AF  activities  to/or  within  the  Washington  DC  area  and/or  requests  to  increase manpower  authorizations  of  the  AF  currently  located  in  the  Washington  DC  area  and submits the package to SAF/AA. 4.3.3.  SAF/AAO  advises  HAF  two-letter/digit  offices  on  the  preparation  of  requests  to relocate  AF  activities  to/or  within  the  Washington  DC  area  and/or  requests  to  increase manpower  authorizations  of  the  AF  currently  located  in  the  Washington  DC  area.  SAF/AAO reviews the package, ensures it is in proper format and prepares the package for review by the EOB. 4.3.4.  The Resource Directorate (SAF/AAR)  advises on manpower authorization issues in  the  preparation  of  requests  to  relocate  AF  activities  to  the  Washington  DC  area  or increase the manpower authorizations currently located within the Washington DC area, specifically the Pentagon, JBAB, JBAN, Fort Meade, Quantico, or leased space. 4.3.5.  The  EOB  will  determine  the  level  of  documentation  and  staffing  required  for  all moves  within  or  into  the  Washington,  DC  area.  The  EOB  reviews  the  package  and  if endorsed,  coordinates  the  package  with  SAF/AA,  SAF/IE,  SAF/LL,  SAF/FMBL  and SAF/AAR  prior  to  seeking  approvals  by  the  Secretary  of  the  AF  and  the  AF  Chief  of Staff.    Upon  receipt  of  AF  approval,  the  package  is  forwarded  to  WHS  IAW  DoDI 5305.5 for their review/approval and continued processing. 4.3.6.  Exceptions.  The  EOB is  not  concerned with organizations moving to  Dover Air Force  Base,  for  example,  even  though  it  is  within  the  ―100  miles  of  the  Pentagon‖ stipulated by SECDEF Memorandum, Land Acquisition and Leasing Office Space in the United States, 17 Nov 02. 4.3.6.1.  AF  and  non-AF  organizations  moving  onto  AF  owned  property,  or  AF organizations  moving  onto  non-AF  owned  property,  may  be  subject  to  the requirements  explained  in  AFI  10-503,  Strategic  Basing,  September  27,  2010.  Exemptions provided by the EOB do not extend to Strategic Basing requirements. 4.3.6.2.  For  organizational  moves  meeting  strategic  basing  criteria,  the  appropriate time to contact SAF/AAO and the EOB would be upon authorization of conducting a site survey at a Washington, DC area location. 5.  Moving Offices: 5.1.  Once located within the Pentagon, JBAB, JBAN or leased space within the Washington, DC area, there may be an instance where an organization would be required to relocate either permanently or temporarily.  Organizations shall work with SAF/AAO to arrange for office AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   7  moves.   SAF/AAO must be notified when offices are adjusting personnel in NCR AF Space.  Furniture in the relocated spaces will be provided.  Therefore no furniture should be moved or relocated. 5.2.  When moves of 50 or more Government employees are contemplated, notify SAF/AAO for purposes of notifying the WHS NCR space coordinator prior to scheduling the move(s).  (See Paragraph 4 above for rules regarding moves to and within the Washington, DC area.) 5.3.  Notify  the  organization‘s  Information  Technology  (IT)  service  provider  to  relocate telephones,  Local  Area  Network  (LAN)  drops,  information  technology  equipment,  and remove telephone lines, if appropriate for ‗alarm‘ systems. 5.4.  Turn-in accountable non-ADP equipment no longer required to the appropriate Property Book Custodian/Supply Coordinator. 5.5.  Coordinate  with  the  appropriate  certifying  security  agency  to  have  the  office  space decertified. 5.6.  Coordinate with  SAF/AAO to  have  ‗alarms‘ turned off after the office space has been decertified. 5.7.  Notify the AF Locksmith by submitting a work request at http://hafap071/fminteract/ to  assist  in  resetting  combination  locks  on  doors  to  the  factory  combination  and  on  safes planned  to  be  turned  in.    See  Headquarters,  Department  of  the  AF  Operating  Instruction (HOI) 31-1, Information and Personnel Security Program. 6.  Realignment, Downsizing or Elimination of AF Programs and/or Organizations: 6.1.  When  realignment  of  a  program  results  in  the  reallocation  of  personnel  from  one organization to another, the losing organization must transfer to the gaining organization the required amount of space to  properly house personnel  and  associated equipment  and notify SAF/AAO of the location of the space to be transferred and a suggested date of transfer.  The EOB will validate the amount of space to be transferred and when. 6.2.  When AF programs are merged, modified, or eliminated, the SAF/AAO must recover, reassign,  or  turn-in  administrative  space  no  longer  required.    The  EOB  will  validate  the amount of space to be returned, and when, and SAF/AAO will supervise the transfer. 6.3.  All vacated space becomes the property of the EOB to reallocate in the best interest of the Air Force.  HAF two-letter/digit offices or support organization to the HAF do not realign or reassign space without approval from the EOB.  SAF/AAO will facilitate this action. 7.  Surveying Space.  The NCR Space Coordinator, SAF/AAO, periodically surveys all space to ensure  space  is  properly  used  according  to  current  DoDI  5305.5,  GSA  standards  (FMR,  Sub-Chapter C, Real Property, Part 102-79, Assignment and Utilization of Space) and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101, Life Safety Code. 8.  Space  Utilization:  Rules  of  Engagement  (ROE)  and  Standards.  The  EOB  establishes ROE  and  standards  for  AF-controlled  space  assigned  to  the  HAF  and  tenants  in  the  Pentagon, leased space, JBAB and JBAN.  The ROE and standards are revalidated at the call of the EOB.  Some  standards  include  furniture,  interior  finishes,  conference  rooms,  carpeting,  bulletin  and directory boards, and hallway displays and exhibits.  ROE topics include: 8.1.  Office Space Assignment Priority is in descending order:   8  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 8.1.1.  HAF two-letter/digit offices. 8.1.2.  Direct  support  organizations  to  the  HAF:  AF  Operations  Group,  AF  District  of Washington, AF Intelligence Analysis Agency, etc. 8.1.3.  Other mission requirements. 8.1.4.  Short term study groups. 8.1.5.  FOAs, DRUs, Named Activities, etc., that do not fall into the category above. 8.1.6.  Others. 8.2.  Space Allowances. As a result of a 2007 OSD-directed study, Pentagon Occupancy and Space  Allocation  Study  (POSAS),  the  AF  lost  a  significant  amount  of  Pentagon  space.  Therefore,  the  EOB  established  a  fixed  ceiling  on  space  allocation  for  each  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  which  was  reviewed  and  approved  by  the  AF  Chief  of  Staff  and  the Secretary of the AF.  Space allowances are based upon funded positions and availability of Air Force space as validated by SAF/AAO and the EOB. 8.2.1.  AF-specific  space  allowances  are  shown  in  the  Space  Allowance  Table  at Attachment 2.  The allocations shown are to be considered maximum allowances.  Due to the lack of available space, more restrictive space standards may be applied as approved by the EOB. 8.2.2.  Space Allowance Variances: 8.2.2.1.  Contractor  Space.    Office  space  will  be  allocated  only  to  those  contracted individuals who work a 40-hour work week in the Pentagon, JBAB, JBAN or in AF-assigned leased space and are required to do so by contract.  By count, the number of contractors  in  the  Pentagon  cannot  exceed  10  percent  of  the  organization‘s  funded Pentagon government positions, and, each contractor in the Pentagon will displace a funded government position. 8.2.2.1.1.  As  part  of  the  contracting  process,  the  office  initiating  the  contract must: 8.2.2.1.1.1.  Include  provisions  for  the  vendor  to  provide  cost  alternatives  based on the AF providing space and not providing space. 8.2.2.1.1.2.  Estimate the number of contractors required to complete the task. 8.2.2.1.1.3.  The  HAF  two-letter/digit,  FOA,  or  DRU  SCRUB  member  will identify space within the organization‘s current space allocation. 8.2.2.1.2.  If off-setting space cannot be identified within existing allocated space, the  organization  requiring  additional  space  will  prepare  DD  Form  1450,  DoD Space  Requirements  Data  Part  I  -  Summary  and  DD  Form  1450-1,  DoD  Space Requirements  Data  Part  II  -  Detailed  Space  Requirements  for  the  entire organization and submit it through their SCRUB member to SAF/AAO. 8.2.2.1.3.  If the organization determines that additional contractors (that is more than the 10 percent allowance) must reside in the Pentagon, then the organization must first seek EOB approval and, if approved, identify a group(s) that can move out of the Pentagon. AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   9  8.2.2.1.4.  Validated  contractor  personnel  will  be  allocated  40  square  feet  (SF) (gross).  Validation of requirements includes providing SAF/AAO a  copy  of the cover  sheet  of  the  contract  showing  the  contract  number  and  contract  duration, including option years, and the page in the contract that obligates the Government to provide the contractor with space.  There is no increase in space allocation for supervisory contract personnel. 8.2.2.2.  Non-Permanent  Personnel  Space  Allocations.    Defense  Senior  Leader Development  Program  (DSLMP)  personnel  (DoDI  1430.16,  Growing  Civilian Leaders,  November  19,  2009),  Career  Broadeners,  Stay-in-Schools,  SCEP/STEP personnel,  Intergovernmental  Exchange  personnel,  Foreign  Exchange  Officers, Interns (military and civilian), Co-Ops, et al, who work a 40-hour work week will be allocated  40  SF  (gross).    Individual  Mobilization  Augmentees  (IMAs)  are  allocated 10 SF (gross). 8.2.2.3.  Full  time  Guard  or  Reserve  personnel  including  personnel  assigned  to AF/RE, funded on the most current Extended Unit Manpower Document (UMD) will be allocated the same amount of space as all other HAF positions. 8.2.2.4.  Directors  and  Division  heads  who  do  not  supervise  six  or  more  funded Government  personnel  will  earn  the  same  amount  of  space  as  a  non-supervisory action officer.  No supervisory space is earned for overseeing contractors. 8.2.2.5.  Reception  Areas.    In  a  direct  support  organization‘s  space,  reception  areas are  allowed  for  visiting  personnel  waiting  to  meet  with  a  customer  service representative.    The  amount  of  space  earned  is  validated  by  the  EOB.    HAF  two-letter/digit  offices  may  have  reception  areas  however  the  space  is  absorbed  within their overall space allocation. 9.  Space  Utilization:  Facility  Alterations  for  HAF  Organizations—Leased  Space,  JBAB, JBAN and the Pentagon. 9.1.  Submit requests for alterations to SAF/AAO.  SAF/AAO will review and continue their processing  or  submit  for  validation  to  the  EOB  on  an  exception  basis.    Upon  approval, SAF/AAO will forward the requirement to WHS or the appropriate Base Civil Engineering office at JBAN or JBAB. 9.2.  Furniture  and  Interior  Finish  Standards.    Furniture  and  interior  finish  standards  have been  established  to  provide  a  cost  effective  program  by  inventory  management  and  still maintain aesthetic continuity within all AF organizations in the Pentagon, in leased space and HAF organizations at JBAN and JBAB.  All color selections (paint, stain, draperies, etc.) and furniture  selections  will  be  guided  by  SAF/AAO  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  standards.  Reutilized  furniture  will  be  used  to  the  maximum  extent  possible.    All  furniture/finishes replacement requests will be evaluated by SAF/AAO to determine if replacement is justified.  Standards are: 9.2.1.  General Officer and Equivalent Grade Civilian Suites: 9.2.1.1.  Walls. Painted, standard neutral color, semi-gloss. 9.2.1.2.  Trim:  Painted, standard neutral color matching wall color, semi-high gloss.   10  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 9.2.1.3.  Chair Rail.  Executive ―two-piece‖ chair rail painted, standard neutral color matching wall color, semi-high gloss. 9.2.1.4.  Carpet. Broadloom, plush cut pile. 9.2.1.5.  Corridor Entry Mat: 9.2.1.5.1.  AF  Logo/Seal  Entry  Mats:    Restricted  to  only  the  SAF/OS,  AF/CC, SAF/US, AF/CV, AF/CVA and AF/CCC. 9.2.1.5.2.  Half-moon  entry  mat  constructed  from  the  in-stock  blue  carpet  with bound  edges  and  rubber  backing  that  meets  the  Pentagon  safety  requirements.  These mats are allowed only on the 4th Floor, E-Ring at the primary suite entrance of the  HAF two-letter/digit office head and a deputy HAF  two-letter/digit  office head suite entrance. 9.2.1.6.  Window  Covering.    Drapery  fixed  side  panels  with  straight,  upholstered cornice  over  sheers  and  building  standard  mini-blinds.    Fabric  is  limited  to  AF-standard blue fabric. 9.2.1.7.  Furniture: 9.2.1.7.1.  Upholstered  Items.    Limited  to  standard  General  Officer/Equivalent grade civilian items. 9.2.1.7.2.  Wood Case goods - Stand-Up Desk.  Limited to Lt General/Equivalent grade  civilian  offices.    The  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  head  and  a  deputy  HAF two-letter/digit  office  head  requesting  the  desk  will  pay  for  its  purchase  and installation.    Other  General  Officers/Equivalent  grade  civilians  may  request  a stand-up  desk  but  must  provide  supporting  medical  documentation.    The  HAF two-letter/digit  office  will  also  pay  for  the  removal  of  existing  office  furniture and,  if  required,  the  cost  of  the  replaced  furniture  to  be  returned  if  the  new, incoming person does not want a stand-up desk. 9.2.2.  All Other Office Areas: 9.2.2.1.  Walls.    Painted  with  solid  color  neutral  (AF  standard  semi-gloss  in  leased space  and  at  JBAN  and  JBAB;  and,  standard  AF  and/or  Building  standard  in  the Pentagon). 9.2.2.2.  Wood Trim. Painted to match building standard trim. 9.2.2.3.  Chair Rail. None. 9.2.2.4.  Carpet.  Carpet tiles. 9.2.2.5.  Window Covering.  Pentagon Building standard blinds (white), leased space building owner standard blinds, or AF Base standard blinds. 9.2.2.6.  Furniture.    Systems  or  kit-of-parts  (KoP)  modular  furniture  with  high pressure  laminate  work  surfaces,  vinyl  or  painted  trim,  fabric  or  hard  surface overhead  storage  doors.    Furniture  will  conform  to  the  criteria  established  by SAF/AAO  and  conform  to  the  universal  space  plan  standards.    No  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  is  authorized  to  acquire  furniture.    SAF/AAO  will  remove  non-conforming furniture. AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   11  9.2.3.  Conference Rooms. 9.2.3.1.  General  Officer  suite  finishes  will  be  applied  to  each  HAF  two-letter/digit conference room.  Lighting enhancements are two-zone lighting (front and back) each zone  controlled  by  dimmer  switches.    Recessed  can  light  fixtures  are  added  to pendant  light  fixtures  in  the  10‘-  4‖  high  ceiling  and  recessed  can  light  fixtures replace the 2‘ x 2‘ lay-in type light fixtures in the 8‘- 4‖ high ceiling.  Track lighting will not be allowed. 9.2.3.2.  Furniture.    General  Officer  standard  wood  furniture  conference  table  and upholstered seating applies. 9.2.4.  Meeting Areas. 9.2.4.1.  Meeting  areas  will  have  finishes  equal  to  ―all  other  office  areas‖  stated above. 9.2.4.2.  AF  standard  wall  protection  (one-piece  chair  rail,  standard  neutral  color matching wall color, high gloss) may be provided. 9.2.4.3.  Seating to be standard stacking chairs with upholstered seat/back. 10.  Requests for Alterations/Furnishings.  SAF/AAO is the liaison between AF organizations and  the  Washington  Headquarters  Services,  Facilities  Services  Directorate  (WHS  FSD).  SAF/AAO is the focal point for all requests for facility alterations, furniture, carpet and drapery in  AF  office  space  in  the  Pentagon  and  in  leased  office  space  in  the  Washington,  DC  area.  SAF/AAO is also the liaison for HAF organizations on JBAB and JBAN for facility alterations, furniture,  carpeting  and  draperies  in  office  spaces.   Submit  requirements  on-line  at:  http://hafap071/fminteract/.    Requirements  are  automatically  routed  through  the  appropriate HAF  two-letter/digit  or  FOA/DRU  SCRUB  member.    If  assistance  is  required,  contact SAF/AAO at (703) 697-8222.  SAF/AAO will evaluate all requests.  Valid requirements will be met, if possible. 10.1.  GSA  Standard  Construction.    For  leased  space,  standard  GSA  construction  methods and  materials  must  be  used  throughout  DoD-occupied  space,  except  in  special  areas  where functional needs justify deviation from these standards. 10.2.  Pentagon, JBAB and JBAN Space Alterations.  SAF/AAO reviews and makes changes to  floor  plans  to  adjust  interior  arrangements  or  modify  the  physical  layout  of  Pentagon, JBAB and JBAN space so the space may be used more efficiently. This includes rearranging or  installing  interior  partitions,  furniture,  air  conditioning,  heating  systems,  electrical facilities, suite entry combination locks (by the AF Locksmith), etc. No self-help is allowed due to life-safety concerns. 10.3.  Temporary,  Leased, and Obsolete Buildings.  Only minimum  essential alterations are made in temporary, leased, and obsolete buildings, consistent with terms of the leases or with the  projected  life  span  of  these  buildings.    Special  facilities,  such  as  auditoriums,  briefing rooms,  communications-computer  systems  facilities,  must  not  be  constructed  or  installed without WHS approval. 11.  Funding  of  Office  Space  Alterations  and  Other  Reimbursable  Services.  Funding  for office space alterations and other reimbursable services may fall to the requesting office.   12  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 12.  Overtime  Heating,  Ventilation  and  Air  Conditioning  (HVAC)  and  Lighting.  The standard  hours  of  Pentagon  HVAC  and  ceiling  lighting  is  0600  to  1800.    Pentagon  offices  are equipped with a button to extend lighting in one-hour increments in the event lighting is required occasionally  before  0600  or  after  1800.    For  offices  in  leased  space,  the  standard  hours  are established by the terms of the lease. Overtime HVAC and lighting is a reimbursable service that the  AF  must  fund  and  will  only  be  approved  by  SAF/AAO  if  well  justified  and  it  is  mission essential.    If  an  organization  requires  extended  HVAC/Lighting  hours,  send  an  e-mail  to  the ‗SAF/AAO  Workflow‘  mailbox  requesting  extension  of  the  office‘s  hours,  listing  the  desired hours, and include a thorough justification that can support the added expenditure of funds.  Be as  specific  as  possible.    SAF/AAO  will  evaluate  the  request  and  if  considered  justified,  will forward the request  to WHS.   Funding for overtime HVAC and lighting may be  required from requesting organizations.  In leased space, GSA or WHS must have funds accepted 72 hours in advance of the service required date or 48 hours notice if prefunded. 13.  Appeals.  Requests  for  services  not  meeting  the  criteria  in  this  Instruction  will  be disapproved. The HAF two-letter/digit, FOA or DRU SCRUB member may appeal a disapproval if justified as mission essential. Appeals must include a detailed description of the proposed need and the rationale for requesting an appeal. The HAF two-letter/digit office head, or commander, must sign all appeal requests. Submit the appeal to SAF/AAO for presentation to the EOB.  In those  instances  in  the  Pentagon  and  in  leased  space  where  AF  leadership  believes  the  need  is valid, but approval authority does not rest with the AF, the EOB will forward the request to the final appeal authority, OSD DA&M, for reconsideration with a courtesy copy sent to SAF/IE. 14.  Cable Television (CATV) ROE: 14.1.  Submit all requests for government-provided or commercially-provided CATV service to  SAF/AAIM  in  memorandum  format  and  include  location,  number  of  drops,  point  of contact,  telephone  number  and  date  required.  Attach  a  simple  diagram  of  the  office  space noting  where  the  CATV  drop(s)  should  be  located.    SAF/AAIM  will  forward  requests approved by the EOB to the United States Army Information Technology Agency (ITA) for installation  within  the  Pentagon  and  supported  facilities  and  to  the  844th  Communications Group for requests at JBAB and JBAN.  EOB-approved requests for commercially-provided CATV service in leased space will be forwarded by SAF/AAIM to the requesting official for follow-on action.  This includes arranging for service from the local CATV provider via their GSA SmartPay charge card/Government Purchase Card or other supply services provider. 14.2.  General  officers  and  equivalent  grade  civilians  are  automatically  approved  for  one government-owned  and  operated  cable  television  (CATV)  service  at  their  primary  duty location. 14.3.  For  others,  requests  for  CATV  service  require  justification  and  endorsement  by  a General  officer  or  equivalent  grade  civilian  and  will  be  reviewed,  as  appropriate,  by  the EOB.    If  there  is  no  General  officer  or  equivalent  grade  civilian  in  the  immediate  chain  of command,  the  request  can  be  signed  by  the  commander  or  senior  official  in  that  specific organization.  Requests not endorsed, as stipulated, will be returned to the originator. 14.4.  Any office that currently has CATV service and is relocating must submit a request to SAF/AAIM  stating  location  (to  include:  from  where  -  to  -  where),  CATV  converter  box number  (if  in  the  Pentagon),  point  of  contact,  telephone  number  and  date  of  move.  Resubmission of requirement, with appropriate justification, is only needed if there has been AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   13  a  change  in  the  scope  of  the  requirement  e.g.,  the  number  of  previously  approved  drops, authorized users, etc. 14.5.  All government-provided CATV converter boxes are the property of ITA and must not be  removed  by  anyone  but  ITA  technicians  or  their  designated  representatives.    Customer installation of splitters, additional cables or other signal multiplying devices is prohibited and could result in termination of service. 14.6.  If  government-provided  CATV  service  is  no  longer  required,  notify  SAF/AAIM  to arrange for termination of service and turn-in of the converter box. 14.7.  For commercially-provided CATV service, customers must terminate that service from the vendor and ensure payment of all account balances is made. 15.  AF  Hallway  Displays  in  the  Pentagon.  The  following  information  applies  to  AF Headquarters  and  Headquarters  Support  organizations  in  the  Pentagon.  It  establishes  AF designated  corridor  space  facility  standards  processes.  This  paragraph  explains  how  to  request approval for the use of common hallway space for AF exhibits/displays in the Pentagon. Due to the Pentagon Renovation, the use of common hallways for displays is more restricted and tightly managed to ensure a consistent professional AF image. WHS is the final authority over the use of  all  Pentagon  hallway/public  space  and  will  determine  availability  of  display  area  to  the  AF (Airman‘s Hall excepted). 15.1.  Roles and Responsibilities: 15.1.1.  SAF/AAO  will  chair  the  AF  Corridor  Displays  Committee  and  is  the  Program Manager  for  the  AF  Displays  Program  in  the  Pentagon.  Members  of  the  Committee include:  The  AF  Art  Program  Office  (SAF/AAOS),  The  Facility  Office  (SAF/AAOM), Office of Public Affairs  Engagement Division  (SAF/PAY), AF Historian  (AF/HO), and Headquarters AF Media Services Division (SAF/AAIM). 15.1.2.  The Committee will: 15.1.2.1.  Coordinate  all  displays  for  use  in  AF  common  hallways/vestibules  and public space in the Pentagon. 15.1.2.2.  Ensure  that  all  displays  are  consistent  with  AF  themes  and  messages approved by SAF/PA and emphasize AF heritage and priorities. 15.1.2.3.  Set  and  enforce  standards  for  display  cabinetry,  lighting,  signage  and graphics that conform to WHS guidelines yet reflect the AF distinctive image. 15.1.2.4.  Develop  an  integrated  AF  displays  plan  that  will  allow  displays  to  be produced and phased in as space becomes available. 15.1.2.5.  Determine  when  a  display  has  outlived  its  relevance  and  should  be replaced. 15.2.  General Guidelines. 15.2.1.  All  displays  in  public  space  must  be  approved  by  the  AF  Corridor  Displays Committee and the WHS Pentagon Corridor Committee before any contracts are written or committed.   14  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 15.2.1.1.  Headquarters  AF  Media  Services  Division,  Graphics  Office  (SAF/AAIM) will maintain an inventory of all AF displays. 15.2.1.2.  If a display request is approved, the organization sponsoring the display is responsible for its maintenance and upkeep. If major alterations are made to a display area, a new approval package must be submitted. 15.2.1.3.  Cost  for  displays/exhibits  will  typically  be  funded  by  SAF/AAIM. However, special fabrication and/or outside contractor support, if required, will be the responsibility of the sponsoring office. 15.2.1.4.  If the display is an AF level  award and is  used for the award presentation ceremony,  the  sponsoring  office  is  responsible  for  its  maintenance,  removal  and return. and 15.2.2.  In  the  Pentagon,  space  for  artwork  and  displays  in  public  areas  is  limited.  (See Director Administration and Management Administrative Instruction (AI) 103,  Exhibits, Artwork Reservation, http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/a103p.pdf.) Due to the limited space, as a  general  rule,  the  AF  is  assigned  artwork  or  display  space  in  areas  populated  by  AF tenants.   Assignment of the A-Ring hallway space is based on availability. The E-Ring will be limited to AF Art Collection artwork and standardized architectural enhancements at the entrance to each HAF two-letter/digit office and Conference Room. Pentagon Signs on the 15.3.  Area Specific Guidelines: 15.3.1.  Vestibules  are  created  when  there  is  a  space  off  of  the  primary  corridor  which provides  access  to  multiple  tenants  and  has  a  door  that  separates  the  vestibule  from  the main public hallway. In conditions where there is no door, the alcove is considered public hallway. 15.3.2.  Vestibule.  A vestibule normally exists in the B, C and D rings. Approval by the AF Corridor Displays Committee must be granted before the installation of a display in vestibules. The following guidelines apply: 15.3.2.1.  For  displays  in  a  vestibule,  all  occupants  who  share  the  vestibule  must agree  to  the  allocation  of  wall  space,  and  positioning  of  displays/exhibit  material. Written agreement must be submitted with the Corridor Application package. 15.3.2.2.  Displays  within  a  vestibule  may  be  identified  more  directly  with  the occupants  who  share  the  vestibule  but  must  still  be  reviewed  by  the  AF  Corridor Displays Committee and conform to AF marketing strategies. 15.3.2.3.  Portraits/photographs  of  past  commanders  or  HAF  two-letter/digit  office heads and below will not be approved. These items may be displayed within offices if desired. 15.3.2.4.  Interior walls within the organization‘s space and conference rooms will be the only areas that can be personalized. 15.3.2.5.  Office Staff directory boards are permitted inside vestibules. 15.3.3.  Public  Corridors:    Any  spaces  outside  offices  that  open  directly  into  public corridors are considered public space. The AF Corridor Displays Committee will evaluate AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   15  AF requests and determine what and how items will be displayed in AF assigned areas. Once  the  AF  Corridor  Displays  Committee  determines  that  the  submitted  display conforms  to  the stated requirements, then SAF/AAO will sponsor the AF request  to  the WHS Pentagon Corridor Committee. 15.3.3.1.  Displays must emphasize AF themes and messages approved by the Public Affairs  Office  (SAF/PA).  Emphasis  will  be  placed  on  integrated  AF  themes  and messages vice individual organizational unique displays. 15.3.3.2.  Portraits/photographs  of  past  commanders  or  HAF  two-letter/digit  office heads and below will not be approved. These items may be displayed within offices if desired. in  designated  AF  award  areas.  Organizational 15.3.3.3.  Award  displays  must  be  limited  to  AF  level  awards  or  higher  and  will  be displayed level  awards  and photographs  of  award  winners  may  be  displayed  within  the  organization‘s  office. Maintenance/updates and removal for award ceremonies are the responsibility of the owning office. 15.3.3.4.  Office/staff directory boards are not permitted in the public corridors.   Upon request  via 15.3.3.5.  Telephone number listings next to telephones at entrances to tenant spaces are  permitted. system (http://hafap071/fminteract/),  SAF/AAO  will  provide  and  install  the  AF  standard plexiglass sleeve.  (Note: No telephones are allowed at the Vestibule entrance, only at the  entrance  to  a  tenant‘s  space.    No  telephones  nor  plexiglass  sleeves  are  allowed outside AF spaces on the 4th Floor, E Ring, Pentagon.) their  on-line  work  order 15.3.3.6.  Organizational logos/graphics are not permitted in public hallways nor are ‗do-it-yourself‘ displays. 15.4.  Process: 15.4.1.  All  requests  for  new  or  relocated  permanent  or  temporary  exhibits  or  non-standard  signs  must  be  submitted  to  the  AF  Corridor  Displays  Committee  through SAF/AAO for processing. SAF/AAO will review the package to ensure all items conform to this Instruction. They will present the package to the AF Corridor Displays Committee for  review,  recommendation,  or  action  as  appropriate.  SAF/AAO  has  final  decision authority  for  the  AF.  They  will  staff  the  approved  package  through  the  WHS  Pentagon Corridor  Committee  for  Building  approval.  SAF/AAO  will  provide  final  disposition  to the requesting organization. 15.4.2.  The  request  package  must  contain organization: the  following  from the  sponsoring 15.4.2.1.  A  memorandum  of  request  with  brief  narrative  description  of  the  exhibit, points of contact  for the sponsoring and  requesting agencies, drawings, photographs or  other  descriptive  material  (graphic  art  depiction)  of  the  exhibit  and  its  specific proposed  location,  its  significance,  how  the  exhibit  is  in  the  best  interest  of  the Government  and  its  relationship  to  the  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  and  the  AF mission, exact dimensions of the display/exhibit and an explanation of how it will be affixed or mounted in the requested location, and   16  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 15.4.2.2.  A  completed  DD  Form  2798,  Application/Permit  for  Use  of  Space  on  the Pentagon  Reservation,  with  attachment  (Page  2),  Conduct  on  the  Pentagon Reservation. 15.4.2.3.  In the case of vestibule use, include signatures from adjoining offices. 15.4.3.  Submit the package electronically to ―SAF/AAO Workflow‖.  Upon approval by the  AF  Corridor  Displays  Committee,  SAF/AAO  will  send  a  transmittal  memorandum with the package to the Pentagon Building Management Office (PBMO, the entry point to  the  WHS  Pentagon  Corridor  Committee)  requesting  approval  and  certifying  that  the AF  (sponsoring agency)  will bear the financial  responsibility of maintaining the exhibit and cost of repairs associated with its maintenance and/or removal. 15.4.4.  Approval  must  be  obtained  from  the  AF  Corridor  Displays  Committee  prior  to any submission to PBMO. 15.4.5.  If a display request is not approved by the AF Pentagon Displays Committee, the requester may appeal the decision to the Deputy, SAF/AA. 15.4.6.  Temporary ―announcement‖ exhibits (e.g., wall mounted posters) and requests to have ceremonies at special Pentagon locations other than Airman‘s Hall (e.g., promotion ceremonies  at  the  Hall  of  Heroes)  do  not  require  review  by  the  AF  Corridor  Displays Committee. Those requests should be submitted directly to PBMO, Room 2E1040. Call (703)  697-7351  to  obtain  instructions.  (NOTE:  Easels  with  temporary  announcements displayed within public space in other than WHS designated areas are prohibited due to life  safety/egress  issues.)    Electronic  announcement  boards  (the  Pentagon‘s  Information Network {INFONET} kiosks) are placed throughout the building.  AF related kiosks are located  on  the  4th  and  5th  floors  at  the  Corridor  9/10  Apex,  A  Ring,  on  which  AF organizations  can  have  messages  displayed  for  upcoming  events  or  post  general announcements.  Submit inputs to SAF/AAIM. 15.4.7.  The  WHS  Pentagon  Corridor  Committee  (PCC)  will  review  the  permit application  package  and  make  a  final  decision  on  the  request.  If  applicable,  and  upon request of the applicant, SAF/AAIM, or the appropriate graphics office, will complete the design  in  accordance  with  specific  guidelines  and,  if  required,  will  coordinate  the installation of the display with SAF/AAO prior to the installation. 15.4.8.  SAF/AAIM  is  the  primary  point  of  contact  for  all  design,  fabrication  and installation  of  displays  (organizations  with  dedicated  graphics  may  be  exceptions).  The graphic  offices  will  work  with  the  tenant  to  develop  a  conceptual  design/sketch  with specifications. Basic display restrictions are: 15.4.8.1.  Height: Not exceed 96‖ each. 15.4.8.2.  Depth.  Objects  protruding  from  the  wall  with  their  leading  edges  between 27‖ and 80‖ above the finished floor (AFF) shall protrude no more than 4‖ into walks, halls, corridors, passageways, vestibules or aisles. Objects mounted with their edges at or below 27‖ AFF may protrude more than 4‖ but they shall not reduce a clear path to an accessible route or impede maneuvering space. 15.4.8.3.  Construction. Lightweight Graphics Substrate (e.g., gatorboard, foam core, etc.). AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   17  15.4.8.4.  Removable  mounting  (no  double  stick tape  or  adhesive  Velcro). SAF/AAIM  will  provide  a  solution  for  the  installation  of  displays  in  a  manner  that does not cause damage to walls or mounting surfaces. 15.4.8.5.  Lighting and Electrical: Normally not authorized. 15.4.9.  Standard architectural  enhancements  in  the Pentagon  are allowed for HAF  two-letter/digit  office  heads  located  on  outer  E-Ring,  4th  floor.  These  treatments  will  adhere strictly to the standard established by the AF Corridor Displays Committee. 15.5.  Room Signage. Room number signage will adhere to the standard established by WHS. 15.5.1.  At  the  entry  to  a  vestibule  on  the  public  hallways,  offices  may  request  the addition of the office symbols for the offices within that vestibule. 15.5.2.  All  requests  for  new  door  signage  or  changes  to  existing  door  signage  must  be coordinated  through  and  approved  by  SAF/AAO  prior  to  submittal  to  SAF/AAIM.    An individual‘s names will not be added to signs. 15.5.3.  SAF/AAIM  is  the  only  organization  authorized  to  obtain  new  door  signage  or replacement signage in the Pentagon. 15.6.  Leased  Space.    For  displays  in  leased  space,  contact  SAF/AAO  for  guidance.  If construction  is  required  for  the  installation/mounting,  submit  the  requirement  to  SAF/AAO through their on-line work order system at http://hafap071/fminteract/.  SAF/AAO does not fabricate displays. 15.7.  JBAB  and  JBAN.    For  displays  at  JBAB  and  JBAN  in  spaces  assigned  to  the  HAF, contact SAF/AAO for guidance. 16.  Reserving Airman’s Hall in the Pentagon.  Airman‘s Hall at the 4A9/10 Apex, 4th floor of the Pentagon, was created by the AF Corridor Displays Committee to provide a ceremonial area for retirements, promotions, awards, etc., similar to the Hall of Heroes.  SAF/AAO is the OPR for the Hall‘s operation.  This instruction applies to use of Airman‘s Hall by AF personnel and is to be used by the Pentagon Building Management Office (PBMO) as basic guidelines for the use of the Hall by other agencies. 16.1.  Rules  of  Engagement  (ROE).    All  events  must  have  3-Star/equivalent  or  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  heads  or  equivalent  (the  highest  executive  within  the  organization) sponsorship. 16.1.1.  The use of Airman‘s Hall is open to any agency in the Pentagon with AF having first priority. 16.1.2.  Event hours are 0900 to 1500. 16.1.3.  Reservations of the Airman‘s Hall are on a first-come-first-served basis.  Those who submit their complete package first will have priority if there is a conflict for time.  (See paragraphs 16.5 and 16.6 6 below.) 16.1.4.  SAF/AAO and SAF/AAIMV will provide logistical/set-up support for AF events. 16.1.5.  Non-AF events will require PBMO set up support.   18  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 16.1.6.  PBMO will forward non-AF applications for use of Airman‘s Hall to SAF/AAO to ensure requested dates are available for use. 16.2.  Accommodations.  The Hall will accommodate 54 seated and 75+ standing.  Seating, tables,  and  all  event  activities  are  limited  to  the  area  between  the  columns  and  cannot overflow into the egress routes due to life safety concerns.  Circulation paths around the Hall must remain clear of any obstructions at all times. 16.3.  Music.    SAF/AAIMV  will  provide  personnel  to  operate  the  music  for  the  AF  top-5 only.  All others must provide personnel to operate the equipment. 16.4.  Food.  Food  is  permitted  only  when  being  catered  by  any  Senior  Leader  Dining Facility, through the 3-Star/equivalent or HAF two-letter/digit head.  Food table set up will be performed by the dining facility staff for their catered events. Official, government-funded events will take precedence for SAF/AAOD support. 16.5.  Process. To request the use of Airman‘s Hall for AF events (for non-AF events, submit a DD Form 2798 to PBMO). 16.5.1.  Submit a completed DD Form 2798 to ―Airman‘s Hall Workflow‖. 16.5.2.  Complete blocks 1 through 7A on page one (sponsor‘s signature at block 7A). 16.5.3.  Block 3 Specify in narrative format: 16.5.3.1.  Type of event (awards ceremony, retirement, promotion, etc). 16.5.3.2.  3-Star/equivalent  or  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  heads  or  equivalent sponsor‘s name. 16.5.3.3.  Quantity of chairs. 16.5.3.4.  If a podium is required specify one or two. 16.5.3.5.  Indicate if the event will be catered by the SAF/AAOD. 16.5.3.6.  Quantity of tables for Senior Leader Dining Facility-supplied food. 16.5.3.7.  Sketch of the desired layout. 16.5.3.8.  Flags—specify type and number required (all types may not be available). 16.5.3.9.  If  AF  Band  ensemble  is  performing,  specify  size  of  musical  group  and accommodations required (number of armless chairs for seated performance, etc.). 16.5.4.  Sponsor‘s signature and date at block 4a on page two. 16.6.  Submittal Deadline.  Requests for use of the Hall must be received by SAF/AAO  NO LATER THAN 45 calendar days prior to the event. 16.7.  Consideration  of  Cost  (see  https://www.cape.osd.mil/costguidance).  SECDEF directed that cost guidance tools must be used effective February 1, 2011. 16.8.  Approval  Process.  Requests  will  be  evaluated,  and  if  there  are  no  calendar  conflicts and the application meets the above requirements, SAF/AAO will submit the request package to  PBMO for official ―final‖ approval.     Note: SECDEF, SECAF, CSAF  will have priority and may bump any event (as with the Hall of Heroes). AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   19  16.9.  Confirmation.  Contact  ―Airman‘s  Hall  Workflow‖  or  call  SAF/AAO  at  (703)  697-8222  three  weeks  prior  to  the  event  to  confirm  approvals  have  been  received  and  to confirm set up requirements. 16.10.  Post  Clean-Up.    Clean  up  of  event  debris  (if  any)  is  the  responsibility  of  the  event POC, not SAF/AAO. 17.  WHS Fire Regulations, Roles and Responsibilities. 17.1.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  every  Air  Force  military,  civilian,  contractor,  Air  Force Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  member  to  follow  the  Washington  Headquarters  Services Fire Regulations (WHSFRs) found at https://fire.whs.mil. 17.2.  The  Air  Force  District  of  Washington  (AFDW)  Safety  Office  (AFDW/SE)  is responsible  to  assign  and  train  personnel  in  order  to  conduct  life  safety  inspections  of  Air Force-assigned  WHS found  at https://fire.whs.mil. the  WHSFRs required  by facility spaces  as 17.3.  WHS is responsible to assign personnel to conduct fire safety inspections of Air Force-assigned WHS facility spaces. 17.4.  The  Operations  Directorate,  Office  of  the  Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Air  Force (SAF/AAO)  will  coordinate  with  the  A/2-letter  SCRUB  member  for  access  to  their  office spaces at reasonable times to examine any building, structure, vehicle, or premises to conduct fire safety inspections at the request of the Fire Marshall. 17.5.  Reconciling Fire Marshall Write-Ups: 17.5.1.  The  inspected  office  will  take  the  necessary  action(s)  to  make  corrections  to  non-facility tenant matters (e.g., removing/turning in space heaters and fans, conducting monthly inspections  of  portable  fire  extinguishers,  ensuring  egress  routes  are  free  and  clear  of obstructions,  ensuring  evacuation  routes  and  assembly  areas  for  the  office  is  posted  at  the room(s)‘ egress door(s), etc.). 17.5.2.  Submit  to  SAF/AAO  facility  items  identified  by  the  Fire  Marshall  as  a  tenant responsibility to correct via its web site, http://hafap071/fminteract. 17.5.3.  The Office of the Pentagon Fire Marshall  (OPFM) will contact  WHS  to  correct ‗building‘ deficiencies (e.g., proper use of photo luminescent tape, proper positioning of water sprinkler heads and associated finishing rings, etc.). 18.  Pentagon  Reservation  Parking.  The  following  information  applies  to  AF  Headquarters and Headquarters Support organizations in the NCR.  Pentagon Reservation parking permits are a controlled item and have a limited quantity.  Air Force personnel whose primary assigned desk is  in  the  Pentagon,  who  works  daily  out  of  the  Pentagon  and  who  possess  a  white  Pentagon badge  will  be  given  priority  for  vehicle  access  and/or  parking  on  the  Pentagon  Reservation.  SAF/AAO  is  the  controlling  authority  for  submittal  and  retention  of  all  Air  Force  Pentagon parking permits and access cards. 18.1.  Personnel desiring a Pentagon parking permit will fill out DD Form 1199 and submit it  along with their home address and phone number to the Air Force Parking Representative in SAF/AAO, or delegated parking representative within their organization, who will submit it to SAF/AAO.  The parking representative shall certify that the applicant has a DOD Building   20  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 Pass, is not on Mass Transit Subsidy and has a valid need for vehicle access and/or parking.  SAF/AAO  shall  submit  the  request  to  the  PFPA  Parking  Management  Office  (PMO)  for approval.  Once the PFPA PMO approves the application, SAF/AAO shall obtain the parking permit(s) and access card(s). 18.1.1.  Due to high demand, wait lists are generated for North A, North C, South A and South  C  permits  and  will  be  issued  on  a  first  come  first  served  basis.    Parking  permits will  not  be  provided  to  the  succeeding  person  in  the  position  without  first  turning  the permit  into  SAF/AAO  for  processing  of  the  new  parking  requirement.    Permits  will  be surrendered to SAF/AAO if the permit holder PCSs, deploys, retires, or moves from their current position. 18.1.2.  Due to  the limited parking allocations,  contractors  will not  be provided parking permits  unless  it  is  stated  within  their  contract  that  they  will  receive  Pentagon  parking consideration.  Parking will then be determined by the wait list that exists for ‗C‘ parking, which  is  the  general  parking  section.    Contractors  currently  holding  permits  may  retain them until the next permit turnover cycle. 18.2.  All Air Force numbered parking spaces are delegated by position.  The permit must be turned  into  SAF/AAO  when  the  person  leaves  the  position  in  the  organization.    SAF/AAO will then reassign the numbered space to the incoming position occupant. 18.3.  Carpool  parking  permits  can  be  obtained  from  Room  2D1039,  PFPA  PMO.    To qualify,  all  carpool  participants  must  all  go  to  the  PFPA  PMO  together  to  show  their Pentagon  badges.    The  primary  permit  holder  will  get  a  carpool  permit  with  an  expiration date to match the earliest Pentagon badge expiration date or one year, whichever is shortest.  Carpool members cannot be on Mass Transit Subsidy so they will have to withdraw prior to receiving a carpool permit. 18.4.  Temporary  parking  can  be  obtained  by  calling  697-8111  for  up  to  five  (5)  times  a month  or  you  can  go  in  person  to  2D1039  and  submit  your  vehicle  information.    For temporary  Pentagon  parking,  Air  Force  personnel  who  can  gain  access  to  the  Pentagon, should go to Room 2D1039, Pentagon Parking Office, Monday through Friday between 0800 and  1600  to  input  their  vehicle  information  for  daily  visitor  parking.  This  daily  visitor Pentagon  parking  process  will  accommodate  an  individual  to  park  five  times  a  month.    If parking at the Pentagon is required more than five times a month, please consider a technical alternative (teleconference, webcams, DCO, OCS, etc) instead of an in-person meeting  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   21  18.5.  Personnel residing outside of the Pentagon that have a documented need for more than five (5) times a month,  will need to  submit a long term temporary parking  request  letter to SAF/AAO. JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support   22  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References United States Code, Title 10, Armed Forces National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101, Life Safety Code, 2009 Edition The Federal Management Regulation (FMR) DoDI 1430.16, Growing Civilian Leaders, November 19, 2009 DoDI 5030.60, Reimbursable Work Authorization Procedures for the Washington Headquarters Services (WHS)-Operated Facilities, September 17, 1993 DoDI 5305.4, Administrative Space Report, National Capital Region (NCR), February 15, 1977 (RECINDED) DoDI 5305.5, Space Management Procedures, National Capital Region, June 14, 1999 SecDef memorandum, Land Acquisition and Leasing of Office Space in the United States, November 17, 2002 Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Administrative Instruction (AI) 30, Force Protection of the Pentagon Reservation,  Change 1, November 19, 2010  Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Administrative Instruction (AI) 88, Pentagon Reservation Vehicle Parking Program, August 29, 2009 Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Administrative Instruction (AI) 103, Exhibits, Artwork and Signs on the Pentagon Reservation, October 20, 2008 Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Administrative Instruction (AI) 112, Washington Headquarters Services Fire Regulations (WHFRs), May 18, 2011 The Pentagon Renovation and Construction Program Office‘s Tenant Guidelines, Space Allocation Standards, December 15, 2006 AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, May 29, 2003 AFPD 32-90, Real Property Asset Management, August 6, 2007 AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property, July 27, 1994 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 AFI 65-601, Volume I, Budget Guidance and Procedures, March 3, 2005 HOI 31-1, Information and Personnel Security Program, October 27, 2004 The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the AF memoranda, Committee for Air Force Pentagon Displays, June 21, 2005, and Pentagon Renovation and Hallway Displays, August 31, 2005 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, September 22, 2009 AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   23  DD Form 1450, DoD Space Requirements Data Part I – Summary, April 1966 DD Form 1450-1, DoD Space Requirements Data Part II - Detailed Space Requirements, April 1966  DD Form 2798, Application/Permit for Use of Space on the Pentagon Reservation, December 1999 Abbreviations and Acronyms ADP—Automated Data Processing ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment AF—Air Force AFAPO—AF Art Program Office AFEDF—AF Executive Dining Facility AFDW—Air Force District of Washington AFF—Above the Finished Floor AFI—AF Instruction AFMAN—AF Manual AFPD—AF Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFSC—AF Specialty Code AI—OSD Director of Administration and Management Administrative Instruction CATV—Cable Television CFR—Code of Federal Regulations Co-Ops—Cooperative Education Students COTR—Contracting Officer‘s Technical Representative DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff DD—Defense Department DEM—VAL—Demonstration-Validation of Space DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit DSLDP—Defense Senior Leader Development Program EOB—Facility Space Executive Oversight Board FMR—Federal Management Regulation FOA—Field Operating Agency   24  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 FPMR—Federal Property Management Regulation FSD—Facilities Services Directorate GSA—General Services Administration HAF—Headquarters, Department of the AF (Secretariat and Air Staff) HAF  two-letter/digit  office—As  used  in  this  instruction,  this  term  applies  to  all  HAF  two-letter/digit offices plus SAF/US(D), AF/CCC, and AF/CC-POLAD HAF/IMM—Headquarters AF Media Services Division HAF/IMMG—Headquarters AF Media Services Division, Graphics Office SAF/AAO—Operations Directorate, Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the AF HOI—Headquarters, Department of the AF Operating Instruction HQ—Headquarters HVAC—Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee INFONET—The Pentagon‘s Information Network IT—Information Technology ITA—United States Army Information Technology Agency JBAB—Joint Base Anacostia Bolling JBAN—Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility-Washington KoP—Kit-of-Parts LAN—Local Area Network NCR—National Capital Region NGB—National Guard Bureau OPFM—Office of the Pentagon Fire Marshall OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense PBMO—Pentagon Building Management Office PCC—WHS‘ Pentagon Corridor Committee POSAS—Pentagon Occupancy Space Allocation Study QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator RDS—Records Distribution Schedule ROE—Rules of Engagement SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the AF SAF/PAY—Engagement Division, Office of Public Affairs AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   25  SCIFs—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities SCRUB—Space Coordination, Reallocation and Utilization Board SECDEF—Secretary of Defense SF—Square Feet SPMD—Space Portfolio Management Division TMT—Task Management Tool UMD—Extended Unit Manpower Document USAF—United States AF WHS—Washington Headquarters Services WHSFRs—Washington Headquarters Services Fire Regulations Terms Administrative  Support  Space—All  office  areas  not  classified  either  as  a  private  or  an  open workstation.  Examples  include  rooms  used  for  conferences,  mail  distribution,  training,  file storage, reception, duplication, supply, libraries (except fixed stacks), etc. Alterations—Modifications  of  space  to  include  walls  demolition  and  installations  electrical work, lighting changes, painting, carpeting, etc. Alternative  Office—An  alternative  office  is  space  assigned  to  a  senior  General  Officer  or Equivalent grade civilian normally occupying assigned AF space outside of the Pentagon but in the NCR.  Space assigned is on loan by the EOB. Bullpen—An  alternative  office  space  located  in  the  Pentagon  Building  for  use  by  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  action  officers  whose  primary  office  space  is  located  outside  the  of  the Pentagon.  Space assigned is on loan by the EOB. Circulation—In office space, circulation is the area within the office used to allow personnel to move around within the office space.  (See Gross SF below for an example.) Communication  Systems—Systems  that  consist  of  senders  (such  as  telephones,  facsimile machines,  etc.),  physical  channels  (such  as  switches  and  wires),  and  receivers  of  data communications (such as telephones, facsimile machines, etc.). Computer  Systems—Systems  that  include  computer  hardware,  software,  and  people  used  to process data into useful information. Facility Space Executive Oversight Board (EOB)—The EOB was established March 1991 by joint  order  of  the  Under  Secretary  of  the  AF  (SAF/US)  and  the  Vice  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  AF (HQ  USAF/CV)  to  centrally  plan  and  manage  office  space  for  Air  Staff  and  Secretariat functions.  It is co-chaired by the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the AF (SAF/AA) and  the  HQ  USAF/Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Air,  Space  and  Information  Operations,  Plans  and Requirements (AF/A3/5), or by their delegated representatives. Federal Management Regulation (FMR)—The FMR is the successor regulation to the Federal Property  Management  Regulation  (FPMR).  It  contains  updated  regulatory  policies  originally   26  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 found in the FPMR.  The FMR prescribes policies concerning property management and related administrative activities. Gross  SF—For  personnel  space  allowances,  the  gross  SF  total  is  the  sum  of  the  net  SF  plus circulation.  For example, in P-4 space (see attachment 2), for an O-6 Director requiring a Private Office, the gross space allowance is 200 SF.  In the Pentagon, the actual office size (net usable SF) is 135 SF and the circulation is 65 SF. Joint Base Andrews—Shortened term for Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility Washington. Leased Space—Any space used, but not held ―in fee‖, by the AF (for example, General Services Administration-controlled  space),  space  permitted  for  use  by  the  AF  from  another  federal agency, or space directly leased by the AF. Market Survey—The process of sending the conference/seminar requirements -- the Statement of Work -- to a minimum of three providers for the purpose of obtaining a price quote. National Capital Region (NCR)—As defined in DoDI 5305.5, the NCR is the geographic area located  within  the  boundaries  of  the  District  of  Columbia;  Montgomery  and  Prince  Georges Counties  in  Maryland;  and  Arlington,  Fairfax,  Loudoun  and  Prince  William  Counties,  plus  the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, and Falls Church in Virginia. Net  Usable  SF—The area measurement is generally shown on floor plans available from GSA sources for leased space, SAF/AAO for Pentagon space, or from the Civil Engineering Drafting Section at a military installation.  Net usable square footage is the measurement from the inside finish of the exterior wall to the office side of the corridor wall or permanent partition (or to the center  of  the  partition  that  separates  the  area  from  the  next  one).    Makes  no  adjustments  for columns or for projections.  Do not include as usable square footage building facilities such as employees‘  restrooms,  stairwells,  public  corridors,  elevator  shafts,  janitor  closets,  space  for mechanical or telephone equipment, etc. Occupiable  Area—Buildings  or  portions  of  buildings  that  are  suitable  for  federal  agencies  to carry out their assigned duties.  This space may be used for offices, storage, specialized use, or a combination of any of these. Open  Work  Station—That  portion  of  an  open  office  space  area  allocated  to  an  individual  to accommodate the furniture and equipment needed for performing his or her work, plus a share of the adjacent aisle. Primary Office Area—Space suitable for office operation.  The space may include a large open area or may be partitioned into rooms.  Examples of office space include: conventional offices, meeting  rooms,  training  rooms,  private  corridors,  closets,  and  similar  areas  that  have  internal office partitions, and supply rooms when used for office space.  Excluded are sub-areas, such as public corridors, stairwells, and restrooms.  For the purpose of listing space requirements on DD Form 1450, DoD Space Requirements Data--Part I-Summary and DD Form 1450-1, DoD Space Requirements  Data--Part II-Detailed Space Requirements, an office is  subdivided into ―private workstations,‖ ―open workstations,‖ ―unit equipment‖ and ―administrative support space.‖ Private Work Station—-A room occupied by one principal, or in some instances, by a principal and secretary. AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   27  Relocation  Costs—All  costs  associated  with  relocating  the  activity;  for  example,  permanent change of station cost,  moving cost  of  furniture and equipment,  cost  of necessary  construction, communications-computer systems, and local area network connectivity. Senior  Leader  Dining  Facility—Any  one  of  three  executive  dining  facilities/kitchens  in  the Pentagon operated by the Army, Navy or AF. Special  Purpose  Space—Space  that  is  completely  or  predominantly  tailored  to  a  specific function and is not generally suitable for functions of other agencies.  Examples are laboratories, medical  facilities,  dining  halls,  dark  rooms,  communications-computer  systems  rooms  with special air conditioning, conference rooms and classrooms with special architectural features or equipment needs, industrial operations with installed equipment (printing plant), etc. Storage  Type  Space—Suitable  space  for  storing  supplies,  equipment,  records,  materials,  etc.  Storage type space does not provide a suitable environment for an office operation.  It includes (but is not limited to) closets, unconverted attic and basement areas, sheds, unimproved lofts and building  cores,  areas  with  minimal  heating  and  lighting,  inside  parking,  and  space  built  for warehousing and record storage. Supply  Coordinator—An  individual  in  a  HAF  two-letter/digit  office  (cannot  be  a  contractor) that serves as the organization‘s primary requester of supplies and equipment (excluding copiers and ADPE).  All requests over the micro-purchase (credit card) limit and National Stock Number items  regardless  of  cost  will  normally  be  submitted  via  the  Supply  Coordinator  to  the  Army Contracting Command, National Capital Region (Pentagon and leased space) or the JBAB/JBAN Contracting  Offices.    The  Supply  Coordinator  also  serves  as  the  organization‘s  non-ADP Equipment  Custodian  by  virtue  of  being  the  individual  responsible  for  the  organization‘s Department of Defense Agency Activity Code and accountable equipment. Unit Equipment—Items of furniture and equipment housed in office space that are not assigned to any one workstation; for example, bookcases, coat racks, office machines, safes, file cabinets, tables, etc., not used exclusively by one person. Washington  DC  Area—The  geographic  area  located  within  100  miles  of  the  Pentagon  as defined by SECDEF Memorandum, Land Acquisition and Leasing of Office Space in the United States, November 17, 2002.    28  AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012 Attachment 2 SPACE ALLOWANCE TABLE (AF-Specific Application)  Space Category/                                                                     Space Allowances (Square Feet (SF)) Types of Space  Assignment                                                       Gross SF (Includes Circulation)  Private Work Station  P-1          Secretaries of Military Departments                                                     600                 Chiefs of Staff for the Services                                                                  600                  Under Secretaries of the Military Departments                                         600                 Vice Chiefs of Military Services                                                                600                 Assistant Secretaries and General Counsels of                                          600                 The Military Departments  P-2          Deputy General Counsels of the Military                                                  400                  Departments                   Assistants to the Secretaries of Military                                                    400                 Departments                 Deputy Under Secretaries of Military Departments                                 400                 Deputy (and Assistant) Chiefs of Military Services                                 400                 Heads of Directorates, Agencies, Commands,                                          400                 Bureaus and Offices reporting directly to                 Positions in P-1 Category                 Three-Star Deputies to Deputy (and Assistant) Chiefs                             400                 Of Military Services and SAF/AA                 Chief Master Sergeant of the AF                                                               400  P-3          Senior Executives Service (SES) positions not                                          300                 Previously listed                 Brigadier General positions and above, or                                                 300                 Comparable positions                 Commanders of Large FOA/DRU                                                             300AFI32-9010  24 JULY 2012   29    Space Category/                                                                     Space Allowances (Square Feet (SF)) Types of Space  Assignment                                                       Gross SF (Includes Circulation)  P-4          Directors in Grades GS-15, or Colonels                                                   200                 Requiring Private offices                  Division Chiefs in Grades GS-15, or Colonels                                         150                 Requiring Private offices                  Deputies to Positions in P-3 category requiring                                        200                 Private offices  P-5          Attorneys in the Grade GS/GM-15 or Colonel                                     150  Open Work Station                  All other Government personnel                                                                100                  Contractor support personnel+                                                                     40  Other       IMA (Regardless of Rank, Part Time)                                                        10                 Non-Permanent Personnel (see paragraph 8.2.2.2)                                     40 Staff and Reception Area (HAF two-letter/digit office Head)++                 Assistant Secretary                                                                                     600                 Deputy Under Secretary                                                                             600                 Deputy Chief of Staff and Equivalent                                                        600                 Grade civilians                 Other HAF two-letter/digit office                                                              400 Conference Room - One per HAF two-letter/digit office Head                               400     + Office space will be allocated only to those contractors who work a 40-hour work week. ++ Staff & Reception Areas for AF/ST, AF/CC-POLAD, and SAF/SP will be based on requirement and space availability.  NOTE:  AF/RE personnel and other Full Time Guard or Reserve personnel earn space like any other HAF, UMD-funded position (see paragraph 8.2.2.3).  