BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 35-111 26 APRIL 2016 Public Affairs PUBLIC AFFAIRS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS AND WARTIME READINESS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/PAR  Supersedes:  AFI35-111, 23 April 2015  Certified by: SAF/PAR  (Ms Sherry Medders) Pages: 51    This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  35-1,  Public  Affairs Management;  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DODI)  5400.13,  Public  Affairs  (PA) Operations; DODI 5400.14, Procedures for Joint Public Affairs Operations; and DODI 5040.02, Visual  Information.    It  provides  guidance  for  PA  planning  and  operations  in  support  of combatant  commander  requirements  and  for  PA  posturing,  coding,  reporting,  and  sourcing requirements and provides guidelines in support of expeditionary operations.  As PA Airmen are first and foremost a deployable combat capability, fully trained and prepared to meet the needs of the  joint  warfighter  inside  and  outside  the  wire,  this  instruction  applies  to  all  PA  Airmen, including the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) except where otherwise noted, and their supervisors at all levels.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all  direct  supplements  are  routed  to  SAF/PAR  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and approval.    When  a  requirement  is  mandated  for  compliance  at  the  wing  level  throughout  this instruction,  the  requirement  is  tiered  following  the  sentence/paragraph  that  drives  the requirement.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit-level  requirements  are  identified  with  a  tier number  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms Management,  Table  1.1,  for  a  description  of  the authorities  associated with tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority or to SAF/PAR for non-tiered compliance items.  Ensure that all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with  (IAW)  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS) Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).    This  instruction  requires  collecting  and  maintaining 2 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 United States Code Section 552a, and AFI 33-332,  The  Air  Force  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Program,  5  June  2013.    The  authorities  to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Section  8013;  Title  10  United  States  Code,  Section  8032;  and  Executive  Order  9397  (SSN)  as amended.   Forms affected by the Privacy  Act  have an  appropriate Privacy  Act  statement.  The applicable  Privacy  Act  System  of  Record  Notice  (SORN)  F010  AFMC,  Deliberate  and  Crisis Action  Planning at  http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.   and  Execution  Segments available  online (DCAPES), is SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is revised to associate wing/unit-level requirements with tier numbers (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Table 1.1, for a description of waiver authorities associated with tier numbers.    Chapter 1— PUBLIC AFFAIRS IN CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS  1.1.  Scope and Purpose. .................................................................................................  1.2.  Public Affairs Core Competencies. .........................................................................  1.3.  Public Affairs Capabilities. .....................................................................................  1.4.  Relationship Between PA and IO. ..........................................................................  Chapter 2— ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  2.1.  Director, Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will: .......  2.2.  Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs Requirements and Development Division (SAF/PAR) will: .................................................................  2.3.  Headquarters Air Force Public Affairs Agency (AFPAA). ....................................  2.4.  MAJCOM, FOA and DRU Directors of Public Affairs will: .................................  2.5.  Component Headquarters (Component MAJCOM and Component NAF) Directors of Public Affairs. ......................................................................................  2.6.  Wing Public Affairs Offices will: ...........................................................................  2.7.  All Airmen who hold the 3N or 35X AFSC (warfighting force and institutional force) will:................................................................................................................  2.8.  Air Force Personnel Center. ....................................................................................  2.9.  Air Force Force Provider for Conventional Forces (Air Combat Command). .......  4 4 4 5 7 8 8 8 9 9 10 12 13 13 13 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Chapter 3— OPERATIONAL PLANNING  3.1.  The Role of Planning. .............................................................................................  3.2.  Strategic Guidance and Direction. ..........................................................................  3.3.  Joint Planning .........................................................................................................  3.4.  The Joint Operation Planning Process. ...................................................................  3.5.  Plan Execution. .......................................................................................................  3.6.  Public Affairs Planning. ..........................................................................................  3.7.  Training and Exercise Planning. .............................................................................  Chapter 4— POSTURING, CODING, REPORTING, AND SOURCING  4.1.  Public Affairs as a Combat Capability. ...................................................................  4.2.  AEF Force Generation Construct. ...........................................................................  4.3.  Public Affairs UTC Posturing and Coding. ............................................................  Table  4.1.  Public Affairs Unit Type Codes. .............................................................................  4.4.  Reporting in ART. ..................................................................................................  4.5.  Sourcing PA Airmen for Deployment. ...................................................................  4.6.  Deployment Funding. .............................................................................................  4.7.  Combat Camera. .....................................................................................................  4.8.  Air Force Bands. .....................................................................................................  Chapter 5— AFTER ACTION REPORTS  5.1.  Purpose....................................................................................................................  5.2.  Responsibilities. ......................................................................................................  Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 2— SAMPLE FORMAT FOR A PUBLIC AFFAIRS ANNEX F Attachment 3— SAMPLE FORMAT FOR A COMBAT CAMERA APPENDIX 10 TO ANNEX C     3 14 14 14 15 16 18 19 21 23 23 23 24 24 26 27 28 28 29 30 30 30 32 47 50 4 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Chapter 1 PUBLIC AFFAIRS IN CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS 1.1.  Scope  and  Purpose.  Public  Affairs  (PA)  Airmen  support  combatant  commander contingency  and  warfighting  requirements  as  directed  by  competent  authority  (i.e.,  assigned combatant  commander  (or  equivalent)  or  the  Secretary  of  Defense).    Joint  Publication  3-61, Public  Affairs,  provides  doctrine  and  guidance  for  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States regarding  PA  advice  and  support  to  joint  operations  and  is  the  basis  for training  and  preparing PA Airmen to  support joint  force commanders;  Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-61,  Public Affairs Operations,  provides  additional  foundational  guidance.    This  Air  Force  instruction  provides additional authoritative  guidance and applies to  all Airmen who hold  the 3N or 35X  Air Force Specialty  Code  (AFSC).    This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level;  however, supplements must be reviewed and approved by SAF/PAR prior to publication. (T-1). 1.1.1.  Through the release of timely, truthful, and accurate information,  PA Airmen inform audiences  about  the  context  of  operational  actions,  which  helps  achieve  national  objectives and  undermine  adversary  propaganda.    Public  Affairs  capabilities  are  integral  to  air,  space, and  cyberspace  planning  and  operations,  enabling  commanders  to  achieve  information dominance across the battle space and across the spectrum of conflict.   1.1.2.  The  Joint  Strategic  Capabilities  Plan  tasks  each  combatant  commander  to  consider public information options to deter conflict before using force.  Public Affairs assists in this effort  by  planning,  coordinating,  and  synchronizing  public  communication  activities  and resources,  in  concert  with  other  lines  of  operation,  to  support  the  commander’s  intent  and concept  of  operations.    Public  Affairs  Airmen  help  clearly  communicate  U.S.  goals  and objectives  at  the  strategic  level;  U.S.  expectations  of  the  adversary’s  required  course  of action to address international concerns and U.S. justification for concern and/or action at the operational level; and, at the tactical level, the U.S. intended course of action if the adversary refuses to comply.   1.1.3.  Public  Affairs  Airmen  support  combatant  commander  contingency  requirements through  the  Air  Expeditionary  Force  (AEF).    Through  the  AEF,  the  Air  Force  maintains  a predictable, standardized, team-focused battle rhythm ensuring forces are properly organized, trained,  equipped,  and  ready  to  sustain  capabilities  while  rapidly  responding  to  emerging crises.  AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, prescribes the procedures and standards that govern the AEF and overall Air Force operations planning and execution. 1.2.  Public Affairs Core Competencies. 1.2.1.  Providing  Trusted  Counsel  to  Leaders.    Public  Affairs  Airmen  deliver  candid  and timely  communication  counsel  and  guidance  to  joint  force  commanders.    This  capability includes  analyzing  and  interpreting  the  information  environment,  monitoring  national  and international public understanding, providing lessons learned, forecasting the possible impact of  military  operations  on  public  opinion,  and  preparing  joint  force  commanders  to communicate through the media and other methods. 1.2.2.  Enhancing Morale and Readiness.  Public Affairs operations enable Airmen to better understand their roles by providing information about how policies, programs, and operations AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 5 affect  them  and  their  families;  provide  avenues  for  feedback;  and  recognize  achievements. Public Affairs programs  keep Airmen  and their families informed  about  operations, events, and  issues  to  reduce  stress  and  uncertainty,  while  mitigating  other  conditions  that  may degrade morale, thus hindering mission accomplishment.  It is also an inherent element of the PA  mission  to  keep  internal  audiences  apprised  of  support  programs  available  to  both deployed Airmen and their families. 1.2.3.  Fostering  Public  Trust  and  Support.    Military  leaders  are  able  to  effectively  recruit, equip, and train forces to perform across the full range of military operations by gaining the support  of  the  public  and  Congress.    Effective  PA  operations  support  a  strong  national defense by building public trust and understanding of the military’s contribution to national security,  strengthening  bonds  with  the  public  through  open,  timely,  and  honest  dialogue.  Public  Affairs  operations  give  people  the  information  they  need,  enhanced  by  visual information, to understand military roles and missions during peacetime, contingencies, and crises.    This  understanding  is  critical  to  earning  and  sustaining  public  support  for  military operations. 1.2.4.  Global Influence and Deterrence.  Joint force commanders employ PA to develop and implement  communication  strategies  that  inform  national  and  international  audiences  and adversaries about the impact of the U.S. military during operations and exercises through the release of information and imagery.  Informing global audiences of U.S. military capabilities and  resolve  can  enhance  support  from  allies  and  friendly  countries  and  deter  potential adversaries.      When  adversaries  are  not  deterred  from  conflict,  information  about  U.S. capabilities  and  resolve  may  still  shape  the  adversary’s  planning  and  actions  in  a  manner beneficial to the United States. 1.3.  Public Affairs Capabilities.  While the weight of effort applied to its different components varies  based  on  the  situation  and  the  commander’s  priorities,  along  with  providing communication counsel, the PA program in contingency or wartime operations should generally encompass all PA capabilities, including communication planning, media operations, community engagement,  command  information,  visual  information,  and  security  and  policy  review.    The relationship between PA and information operations (IO) should also be understood. 1.3.1.  Media  Operations.    Mass  media  outlets  are  key  actors  in  the  global  information environment, with significant implications for military operations.  Through technology and a  complex  web  of  formal  and  informal  support  and  integration  relationships,  today's  mass media possess global reach with sophisticated capabilities and tactics that mirror those of the U.S. military.  Most major national and international news outlets actively gather, synthesize, and  distribute  information  and  imagery  around  the  clock  in  real  time.    Though  all  media outlets  have  their  own  editorial  policy  and  define  and  cover  news  differently,  most  major outlets focus heavily on military operations during times of international crisis and war.  The operational  reality  for  the  U.S.  military  is  that  the  media  are,  and  will  continue  to  be,  key actors  during  crises  and  conflicts.    Principles  of  Information  for  news  media  coverage  of DOD operations are prescribed in DODD 5122.05, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs. 1.3.2.  Community  Engagement.    Effective  engagement  builds  an  informed  public  that  is more inclined to support military operations and less susceptible to the effects of adversary misinformation  or  inaccurate  media  reports.    In  many  deployed  environments,  effective 6 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 community engagement is vital to the success of U.S. military operations and is instrumental in  gaining  the  trust,  respect,  and  support  of  local  populations  and  deterring  their  support  to the adversary.  Community engagement can serve as a force multiplier by fostering a friendly and permissive environment in which joint forces can operate freely or with reduced risk.  In forward joint  operations  areas, community  engagement may  fall within the scope of a civil affairs plan (see Joint Publication (JP) 3-57, Civil-Military Operations). 1.3.3.  Command  Information.    Command  information  is  the  responsibility  of  each  service.  Providing Airmen timely, accurate, and useful information results in informed support for the Air  Force  mission  and  degrades  the  effectiveness  of  adversary  disinformation,  propaganda, or deception.  Public Affairs provides commanders tools through which they can respond to concerns of Airmen and their families and enhance Airman morale and readiness.   1.3.4.  Visual  Information.    Public  Affairs  ensures  the  full  range  of  military  operations, historical and newsworthy events, and the physical environment in which these are planned or  take  place  are  visually  and  accurately  recorded.    In  addition  to  providing  a  historical record,  visual  information  supports  operational  planning  and  decision  making,  public diplomacy,  military  information  support  operations,  combat  assessment,  training,  DOD business operations, and public information requirements.  As a specialized subset of visual information,  Combat  Camera  is  a  rapid  global  response  capability  uniquely  organized, trained,  and  equipped  to  document  air  and  ground  operations,  with  the  technological capability  to  acquire,  process,  and  rapidly  transmit  still  and  motion  imagery  in  austere operating environments.   1.3.5.  Security and Policy Review.   1.3.5.1.  Security  and  policy  review  determines  the  suitability  for  public  release  of information and imagery and represents an ongoing effort to inform and increase public understanding of DOD  missions,  operations, and programs.   Security and policy  review ensures  material  proposed  for  public  release  is  accurate,  does  not  contain  classified  or critical information, and does not conflict with service, DOD, or U.S. Government policy.  Any  official  information  intended  for  public  release  that  pertains  to  military  matters, national  security  issues,  or  subjects  of  significant  concern  to  DOD  is  reviewed  by  PA prior  to  release.    The  intent  is  not  to  censor  unclassified  information;  security  review supports operations security by preventing the release of classified or critical information that could be exploited.  Operations security applies to all activities that prepare, sustain, or employ forces during all phases of operations.  Within these parameters, public release of  official  DOD  information  is  limited  only  as  necessary  to  safeguard  information requiring protection in  the interest  of national  security or other legitimate governmental interest.  See AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process; AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program; and AFI 10-701, Operations Security. 1.3.5.2.  The  security  and  policy  review  clearance  process  determines  the  suitability  for public  release  of  information;  it  does  not  grant  approval  to  release  the  information.  Release  of  information  is  the  decision  of  the  originator,  often  reached  through  chain  of command  coordination.    Nor  do  security  and  policy  reviews  classify  or  declassify information even though classified or sensitive information may be identified.  The office of primary responsibility of the material under review determines original classification.  Department  of  Defense  material  submitted  for  review  may  be  released  to  the  public AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 7 domain  only  after  it  has  both  been  reviewed  for  security  and  policy  consistency  and  is approved for release by a competent authority.   1.3.5.3.  In deployed operations, the information and imagery review authority is the joint force  commander,  who  may  delegate  that  authority  to  forward-deployed  PA  Airmen  at the lowest level where competent authority exists to judge the security and policy aspects of  the  information  and  imagery  submitted  for  review.    Joint  force  commanders  must ensure  PA  operations  are  closely  integrated  with  their  staffs  to  minimize  delay  in providing  security  review  of  operational  products  like  weapons  system  video  and  other imagery  that  demonstrate  military  capabilities.    (Note:    While  PA  may  be  involved  in coordinating  the  public  release  of  weapons  system  video  and  ensures  appropriate masking procedures are followed, PA Airmen do not provide manpower or assistance to collect,  process,  or  produce  weapons  system  video  or  products  thereof  for  operational purposes,  which  is  a  responsibility  of  the  intelligence  function.)    This  process  also promotes  consistency  in  the  type  of  unclassified  information  released  to  the  public.  Regardless  of  the  level  of  the  release  authority,  all  PA  Airmen  ensure  deployed  unit members  understand  and  comply  with  guidelines  regarding  information  and  imagery collection,  review,  and  release,  to  include  personal  communications,  photographs,  and videos. 1.4.  Relationship Between PA and IO.  Joint Publication 3-13, Joint Doctrine for Information Operations, defines IO as the integrated employment, during military operations, of information-related capabilities in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt, corrupt, or usurp the  decision-making  of  adversaries  and  potential  adversaries  while  protecting  our  own.  Information-related capabilities are tools, techniques, or activities employed within a dimension of  the  information  environment  that  can  be  used  to  create  effects  and  operationally  desirable conditions.    They  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  electronic  warfare,  cyberspace  operations, military information  support  operations,  civil-military  operations,  military  deception, intelligence, and PA.  While both PA and IO plan and execute public information activities, they differ  with  respect  to  their  publics,  scope,  intent,  and  authorities.    As  such,  they  are  separate functional areas, with PA serving as part of the joint force commander’s staff and IO supporting operations from the Director of Operations, the J3.  Joint force commanders ensure appropriate coordination between PA and IO activities consistent with policy, legal limitations, and security.  While IO is doctrinally responsible for integrating information-related capabilities into the joint operation planning process, this is a collaborative process and does not give IO the authority to plan or speak for PA. 1.4.1.  Policy, precedent, integrity, and good strategy all bar PA from intentionally providing false or misleading information.  Therefore, it is essential that PA Airmen keep the intent of other information-related capabilities in perspective to lessen the chance of compromise and conflicting  efforts.    Public  Affairs  integration  with  other  information-related  capabilities  is vital  to  ensure  capabilities  complement  rather  than  conflict  with  each  other.    Air  Force Doctrine Annex 3-13, Information Operations, provides additional guidance. 8 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Director, Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will: 2.1.1.  Advise  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force,  and  other Department  of  the  Air  Force  leaders  on  all  matters  relating  to  Air  Force  communication strategies, programs, activities, and resources. 2.1.2.  As  the  Air  Force  functional  authority  for  PA,  establish  policy  and  guidance  to organize, train, and equip PA capabilities to satisfy Air Force expeditionary and home station requirements, as well as establish and oversee processes to assess and enhance the readiness and availability of PA Airmen. 2.2.  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  Office  of  Public  Affairs  Requirements  and  Development Division (SAF/PAR) will: 2.2.1.  Serve as the Headquarters Air Force Functional Area Manager (FAM) for PA and as the  principal  advisor  to  the  Director  of  Public  Affairs  on  career  field  readiness  issues, policies, and procedures.  Provide policy and guidance on all aspects of PA mission areas as they  relate  to  operational  requirements.    Interpret,  develop,  and  apply  joint  and  Air  Force operational  and  exercise  planning  and  execution  policy  and  guidance  and  resolve  issues, problems, and inconsistencies.  2.2.2.  Attend Global Force Management conferences as the Air Force agency responsible for all wartime planning policies and procedures that affect the entire PA functional area.  2.2.3.  Develop  PA  Mission  Capability  Statements  (MISCAPs)  and  strategy  for  UTC posturing,  coding,  and  sourcing.    As  a  pilot  unit,  serve  as  the  Manpower  and  Equipment Force  Packaging  (MEFPAK)  System  and  Logistics  Detail  (LOGDET)  planner  for  all  PA UTCs.  Establish policy to evaluate, manage, exercise, and deploy PA UTCs.   2.2.4.  Lead  PA  Mission  Essential  Task  List  (METL)  development  for  use  as  Defense Readiness  Reporting  System  (DRRS)  capabilities-based  readiness  reporting  measurement criteria.  Update METLS if or when specific capability does not meet combatant commander requirements.    Ensure  METLs  map  to  related  capabilities  in  the  Universal  Joint  Task  List (UJTL).   2.2.5.  Posture, code, and source PA Airmen  assigned to  SAF/PA  (to include the Air  Force Public Affairs Agency and its operating locations); monitor major command (MAJCOM) and Field Operating Agency  (FOA) and Direct  Reporting Unit  (DRU) posturing and  coding for both  active  and  Reserve  Components  to  ensure  compliance  with  Headquarters  Air  Force guidance; and recommend changes to posturing at all organizational levels to maximize UTC availability.    Plan  and  conduct  an  annual  PA  planning  and  sourcing  workshop  attended  by MAJCOM and select Component Numbered Air Force (C-NAF) PA planners and FAMs.  2.2.6.  Centrally  manage  and  direct  the  sourcing  of  PA  UTCs  to  meet  global  requirements and  resolve  shortfalls  if  a  MAJCOM  is  unable  to  fill  a  requirement.    Provide  sourcing nominations  (by  MAJCOM)  to  the  Air  Force  force  provider  for  conventional  forces  as outlined  in  Air  Force  annual  Global  Force  Management  planning  guidance.    Approve  all AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 9 taskings,  coordinate  with  components  to  redirect  forces  when  necessary,  and  develop mitigation strategies to offset impacts.  Determine the degree of augmentation required by the Air Reserve Component. 2.2.7.  Work closely with component NAFs and MAJCOMs to ensure requirements levied on them directly from their combatant commander are accounted for in the overall management of PA resources. 2.2.8.  Oversee and set formal classroom and field expeditionary skills training standards for all PA UTCs.   2.2.9.  Review  and  validate  after  action  reports  submitted  by  PA  Airmen  upon  return  from deployment or participation in a major exercise, identifying action items and sharing relevant information with the appropriate component headquarters PA director(s) to incorporate best practices and practical guidance into standard operating procedures, training, equipment, etc. 2.3.  Headquarters  Air  Force  Public  Affairs  Agency  (AFPAA).  In  addition  to  performing functions in para 2.4 below, AFPAA will: 2.3.1.  Organize,  train,  and  equip  readily  deployable  and  adaptive  PA  and  Combat  Camera UTCs  that  may  operate  as  independent  units  or  be  integrated  into  an  air  operations  center (AOC). (T-1). 2.3.2.  Ensure  availability  of  aircrew-qualified  Combat  Camera  Airmen operational aerial requirements. (T-2). to  support 2.3.3.  Fund  AFPAA  personnel,  equipment,  and  supplies  for  contingency  and  wartime requirements. (T-1). 2.3.4.  Ensure  headquarters  and  subordinate  unit  readiness  is  reported  in  the  AEF  UTC Reporting  Tool  (ART)  and  in  DRRS/Status  of  Resources  and  Training  System  (SORTS) within established timelines.  (T-1). 2.4.  MAJCOM, FOA and DRU Directors of Public Affairs will: 2.4.1.  Establish  and  oversee  processes  to  assess,  enhance,  and  monitor  the  availability  of forces  and  equipment  within  their  commands  to  satisfy  Air  Force  expeditionary  and  home station requirements. (T-1).  When appropriate, supplement Headquarters Air Force guidance and address MAJCOM-unique requirements.  Ensure consistent application of guidance and keep SAF/PAR informed of variances, problems, and Unit Indicator Code (UIC) changes. 2.4.2.  Appoint  a  primary  and  alternate  FAM  to  provide  expert  guidance,  manage  UTCs, monitor  readiness,  and  attend  the  annual  PA  planning  and  sourcing  workshop.    (T-1).    Per AFI 10-401, FAMs at all echelons must complete web-based Air Force FAM training within three  months  of  assignment  and  must  attend  DCAPES  training.    Completion  of  the Contingency Wartime Planning Course, while optional, is highly recommended for all FAMs and is mandatory for PA Airmen with planning responsibilities. 2.4.3.  Posture the maximum number of standard deployable UTCs, ensuring all warfighting active component funded authorizations are postured and every Airman is assigned an AEF Indicator, following AFI 10-401 and guidance in this AFI. (T-1).  MAJCOM, FOA & DRU PAs  will  ensure  a  balanced  UTC  apportionment  and  capability  in  each  AEF  deployment vulnerability  period.  (T-2).    MAJCOM,  FOA  &  DRU  PAs  will  promptly  implement 10 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 adjustments  to  posturing  or  coding  to  maximize  UTC  availability  when  directed  by SAF/PAR. (T-2).  MAJCOM, FOA and DRU Directors of Public Affairs will also ensure all Airmen are aware of their AEF Indicator as annotated in the Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS),  and  that  UTCs  are  continually  updated  in  ART,  with  readiness  and  availability changes reflected within 24 hours. (T-1). 2.4.4.  Ensure Airmen are fully trained and equipped for deployment IAW the MISCAPs for their UTCs, and that  each UTC has its own  LOGDET.   (T-1).  Ensure  Airmen limit  leave, temporary  duty  (TDY)  and  professional  military  education  (PME)  attendance  during  their training preparation window unless all deployment-related training has been accomplished or does  not  conflict  with  other  activities.    Reduce  other  training  to  a  minimum  during  the training window, emphasizing contingency and wartime tasks. 2.4.5.  Ensure units are promptly notified of taskings to include line remark requirements and that all required training is accomplished prior to deployment.  (T-1).   MAJCOM, FOA and DRU  Directors  of  Public  Affairs  will  immediately  advise  SAF/PAR  of  potential  reclamas and  ensure  formal  reclama  procedures  are  followed.  (T-1).    Recommend  home  station mitigation  strategies  (extended  work  day,  reduced  services  and  products,  use  of  Individual Mobilization  Augmentees  (IMAs),  deferred  nonessential  training,  etc.)  to  maximize deployable capability and offset impacts. 2.4.6.  Maintain  awareness  of  combatant  command  plan  taskings  affecting  their  commands, coordinating  requirements  with  SAF/PAR.    Ensure  units  are  aware  of  combatant  command plan  taskings  that  affect  them  and  that  they  participate  in  developing  PA  annexes  to  wing-level plans. (T-1).   2.4.7.  Plan  for  PA  participation  in  MAJCOM  exercises,  coordinating  requirements  with SAF/PAR. (Note: Applicable to MAJCOM Directors only)  2.4.8.  Ensure  that  within  45  days  of  returning  from  deployment  or  a  major  exercise,  PA Airmen submit an after action report as described in Chapter 5, which the MAJCOM, FOA or DRU forwards to SAF/PAR within 5 duty days. (T-3).  Review reports for intracommand trends, deficiencies, best practices, etc., and take appropriate action. 2.5.  Component Headquarters (Component MAJCOM and Component NAF) Directors of Public Affairs.  Component headquarters PA offices have unique responsibilities.  A component headquarters  performs  an  operational  and  warfighting  mission  in  support  of  a  combatant command.  It plans, commands, controls, executes, and assesses capabilities across the full range of  military  operations.    A  Component  headquarters  consists  of  an  Air  Force  Forces  (AFFOR) staff and an Air Operations Center (AOC), with Air Force forces assigned or attached as required to  support  the  combatant  command.    The  AFFOR  staff’s  primary  function  is  to  support  the AFFOR commander (COMAFFOR) at the operational level as the Air Force service component to a joint force commander.  Public Affairs serves on the AFFOR staff and is responsible for all PA  activities  under  the COMAFFOR,  including  within  the  AOC,  which does  not  have  its  own PA  capability;  see  AFI  13-103,  AFFOR  Staff  Operations,  Readiness  and  Structures,  for  more information.    The  AFFOR  staff  is  sized  at  the  minimum  level  necessary  to  establish  a  core capability  for  steady  state,  wartime/crisis  surge  (to  the  most  likely  wartime  scenario  until augmentation  is  available),  and  service  functions  that  cannot  be  completed  through  reachback.  The AFFOR PA staff should use forward forces, with reachback to its component headquarters, without duplicating capability forward and rear.  The component headquarters PA will: AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 11 2.5.1.  Plan,  coordinate,  and  synchronize  U.S.  military  public  information  activities  and resources  to  support  the  commander’s  intent  and  concept  of  operations.    Advise  the COMAFFOR  on  the  integrated  and  synchronized  planning,  execution,  and  assessment  of communication  operations.    Ensure  integration  with  combatant  command  and  component headquarters  staffs,  other  service  component  staffs,  partner  nations,  and  governmental  and nongovernmental  agencies  through  all  phases  of  military  operations.    Ensure  authorities  to plan,  integrate,  approve,  and  disseminate  releasable  information  and  imagery  are  clearly established.  Plan for and direct PA activities of subordinate elements, identifying objectives, priorities, and  command relationships.   Conduct  security and policy  review for information and imagery intended for public release.   2.5.2.  Plan,  coordinate,  request,  and  manage  a  PA  capability  that  meets  the  commander’s operational objectives, using an appropriate combination of standard Air Force PA UTCs to source  operation  plan  (OPLAN)  requirements  IAW  this  AFI  and  the  Public  Affairs Supplement to the U.S. Air Force War and Mobilization Plan (Volume 1) (WMP-1).  Ensure line  remarks  are  correct  and  complete  and  that  predeployment  training  and  reporting instructions  are  updated  to  meet  supported  commander  requirements.    Coordinate  with SAF/PAR before building or changing requirements to ensure forces are available. 2.5.3.  Provide  the  AOC  staff  a  PA  capability  to  conduct  operational  planning  and assessment,  integrating  PA  into  AOC  working  groups  and  meetings  as  required  and  ensure PA is part of strategy development, planning, and execution phases of the air tasking cycle.  Provide  support  to  AOC-planned  activities  and  monitor  current  operations  for  emerging issues.  For additional information, see AFI 13-1AOC, Volume 3, Operational Procedures-Air Operations Center. 2.5.4.  Plan  and  direct  visual  information  collection,  documentation,  and  distribution.  Oversee  activities  of  Combat  Camera  teams  producing  visual  information  products  that inform decision making, operational planning and assessment, and communication as well as satisfy  requirements  for  historical  documentation  of  operations  while  deployed  and  under AFFOR operational control.  Where rapid global response, aerial imagery, special operations, or  combat  maneuver  and  capability  are  not  required,  ensure  traditional  visual  information capabilities, not Combat Camera, are requested and used, unless justified and coordinated in advance with the Air Staff FAM, who coordinates with the AFPAA director. 2.5.5.  Plan  and  direct  Air  Force  band  support  for  ceremonial,  troop  morale,  protocol,  and building  partnership  events.    Coordinate  troop  morale  events  with  Air  Force  Services  and Armed Forces Entertainment in theater. 2.5.6.  Ensure  PA  logistics  support  and  planning  details  are  coordinated  and  included  in theater concept plans, operations plans, functional plans, and other theater or mission-specific planning  documents.    Include  provisions  for  transportation,  facilities,  communication (Internet  access  and/or  satellite  or  cell  phone  access),  equipment,  lodging,  messing, translation  requirements,  and  other  requirements  of  PA  forces  or  to  support  news  media.  Plans  should  include  provisions  for  priority  in-theater  air  and  ground  transportation  for movement  of  PA  personnel,  news  media  representatives,  and  their  equipment,  when appropriate.  (Note:    Additional  PA  planning  considerations  are  outlined  in  JP  3-61,  Public Affairs.  Expertise and advice on global communications capabilities and availability, and/or American Forces Network support, is available through the Defense Media Activity.)  12 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 2.6.  Wing Public Affairs Offices will: 2.6.1.  Coordinate  with  MAJCOM  FAMs  to  ensure  all  military  authorizations  are  postured against a UTC and that all Airmen, including overages, 3-levels,  lieutenants  and  IMAs, are assigned an AEF Indicator corresponding to an AEF deployment vulnerability period. (T-1).  2.6.2.  Equip,  IAW  the  complete  LOGDET  for  each  UTC,  to  the  total  number  of  UTCs postured.  (T-1).   2.6.3.  Ensure  UTC  readiness  is  accurately  reported  in  ART,  coordinating  with  the  unit deployment  manager  (UDM),  ART  monitor,  and/or  squadron  commander,  and  upon notification of a condition that changes (either positively or negatively) the assessment of a UTC’s  readiness,  promptly  advise  the  MAJCOM  FAM  and  immediately  notify  the  UDM, ART  monitor,  and/or  squadron  commander  so  the  deployment  availability  (DAV)  code  is updated within 24 hours.  (T-1).  (Note:  Unit type code readiness assessment is based on the ability to  accomplish  the MISCAP,  the ability to  fulfill  the manpower requirement, and the ability  to  fulfill  the  equipment/supplies  requirement  (LOGDET).    The  MISCAP  is  a  brief description  of  the  capability  for  which  the  UTC  is  designed  and  may  provide  authorized substitutions to  skill  level  and  grades;  the  LOGDET is  a list  of equipment  and supplies the UTC requires to perform the mission.  Both are available from UDMs, MAJCOM FAMs and SAF/PAR.) 2.6.4.  Ensure  Airmen  are  current  in  their  annual  total  force  awareness  training  and  when tasked to deploy complete all expeditionary training requirements; have all required uniform items,  equipment,  and  supplies  and  know  how  to  use  them;  obtain  official  passports;  and review  and  comply  with  all  line  remarks  and  combatant  command,  aerial  port  of embarkation,  area  of  responsibility  and  country/location-specific  reporting  instructions, promptly contacting their UDM or MAJCOM FAM if they do not understand or cannot meet any requirements.  (T-2). 2.6.5.  Ensure all Airmen are informed of their AEF Indicator.  (T-3).  Airmen should also be aware  of  AEF  Online  (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/default.aspx  )  resources  including Air  Force  Tactics,  Techniques,  and  Procedures  (AFTTP)  3-4,  Airman’s  Manual,    keep personal  affairs  in  order,  and  plan  around  AEF  deployment  vulnerability  periods.    Ensure Airmen  limit  leave,  TDYs  and  PME  attendance  during  their  training  preparation  window unless all deployment-related training has been accomplished or does not conflict with other activities.  Reduce other training to a minimum, emphasizing contingency and wartime tasks.   2.6.6.  Ensure  all  Airmen,  upon  returning  from  deployment,  comply  with  requirements  for home station reintegration support.  (T-3). 2.6.7.  Ensure all Airmen, within 45 days of returning from deployment or a major exercise, submit an after action report IAW Chapter 5.  (T-3). 2.6.8.  As needed, plan and budget for home station mitigation strategies (extended work day, reduced services and products, use of IMAs, temporary contract or civilian overhire support, deferred  nonessential  training,  etc.)  to  maximize  deployable  capability  and  offset  impacts.  (T-3).   AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 13 2.7.  All Airmen who hold the 3N or 35X AFSC (warfighting force and institutional force) will: 2.7.1.  Ensure  they  are  ready  for  deployment  and  know  their  AEF  Indicator;  are  aware  of AEF Online resources (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/default.aspx)  including AFTTP 3-4,  Airman’s  Manual;  plan  around  AEF  deployment  vulnerability  periods  (leave,  PME, college classes); and keep their personal affairs in order. (T-1).  2.7.2.  When aware of a  condition  that changes their personal  readiness status, immediately advise  their  supervisor  so  that  the  UDM,  ART  monitor  and/or  squadron  commander,  and MAJCOM  FAM  can  be  promptly  notified  so  their  DAV  code  can  be  updated  within  24 hours. (T-1).   2.7.3.  When  tasked  to  deploy,  read,  understand,  and  comply  with  all  line  remarks, requirements, and reporting instructions; complete all required training; and have all required uniform items, equipment, and supplies, promptly contacting their UDM or MAJCOM FAM if they do not understand or cannot meet any requirement(s). (T-1). 2.7.4.  Upon  returning  from  deployment,  comply  with  requirements  for  home  station reintegration support. (T-1). 2.7.5.  Within  45  days  of  returning  from  deployment  or  a  major  exercise,  submit  an  after action report as described in Chapter 5. (T-1). 2.8.  Air  Force  Personnel  Center.  AFPC  does  not  source  or  manage  PA  UTCs.    Due  to  its unique capability, structure, and doctrinal use, PA is a centrally managed career field.  As such, SAF/PAR  is  authorized  by  AFI  10-401,  para  1.10.4.1.1,  to  perform  pilot  unit,  scheduling,  and other functions.  Therefore, all PA requirements are sourced by SAF/PA according to guidance in AFI 10-401 and this AFI.  AFPC will coordinate with SAF/PAR on all PA deployment issues.  (T-1). 2.9.  Air Force Force Provider for Conventional Forces (Air Combat Command).  ACC/A3 will  coordinate  emerging  or  rotational  PA  requirements  through  SAF/PAR,  a  centralized  force management function as described in AFI 10-401, para 1.10.4.1.1. 14 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Chapter 3 OPERATIONAL PLANNING 3.1.  The  Role  of  Planning.  Joint operation planning plays a fundamental  role in  securing our nation’s interests in a continuously changing operational environment.  Beginning with the end state  in  mind,  planning  ties  the  military  instrument  of  national  power  to  the  achievement  of national  security  goals  and  objectives,  providing  a  unifying  purpose  around  which  actions  and resources  are  focused.    By  conducting  detailed  planning  to  fully  develop  alternatives,  identify resources, and determine and mitigate risk, commanders provide multiple options to employ the U.S.  military  and  to  integrate  its  actions  with  other  instruments  of  national  power  to  achieve strategic  end  states.    Joint  Publication  5-0,  Joint  Operation  Planning,  provides  guidance  and forms the core of joint doctrine for planning across the range of military operations.   3.1.1.  Joint  operation  planning  is  an  adaptive  process  that  requires  collaboration  across multiple  functions  and  planning  levels.    Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  Manual 3130.03,  Adaptive  Planning  and  Execution  Planning  Formats  and  Guidance,  requires  joint force commanders to include communication goals and objectives in the commander’s intent and to have a well-developed communication strategy through all phases of operations.  Joint operation  planning  is  accomplished  through  the  Adaptive  Planning  and  Execution  (APEX) system.    The  Joint    Planning  and  Execution  Community  uses  APEX  to  monitor,  plan,  and execute  mobilization,  deployment,  employment, redeployment,  and demobilization  activities  associated  with  joint  operations.    Public  Affairs  planners  must understand and participate throughout the entire planning process to ensure PA activities are aligned, integrated, synchronized, coordinated, and resourced. sustainment, 3.2.  Strategic  Guidance  and  Direction.  Strategic  direction  is  the  common  thread  that integrates  and  synchronizes  planning  activities  and  operations,  providing  purpose  and  focus  to planning for employment of military force.   3.2.1.  The  President  provides  strategic  guidance  through  the  National  Security  Strategy, which serves as the foundation for developing, applying, and coordinating the instruments of national power to achieve objectives that contribute to national security.  The President also signs  the  Unified  Command  Plan  and  the  contingency  planning  guidance  section  of  the Secretary of Defense-signed Guidance for Employment of the Force.  The Unified Command Plan  establishes  combatant  command  missions,  responsibilities,  and  force  structure; delineates the geographical area of responsibility for geographic combatant commanders; and specifies functional responsibilities for functional combatant commanders.  It provides broad guidance  that  commanders  and  planners  can  use  to  derive  tasks  and  missions  when developing  plans.    The  Guidance  for  Employment  of  the  Force  provides  direction  to combatant commands for operational planning, force management, security cooperation, and posture  planning.    It  consolidates  and  integrates  DOD  planning  guidance  related  to operations  and  other  military  activities  into  a  single  document,  providing  the  strategic  end states for the deliberate planning of campaign plans and contingency plans.   3.2.2.  The Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, develops the National Military Strategy and the Joint  Strategic  Capabilities  Plan.    These  documents  represent  his  recommendations  on  how the  United  States  should  employ  the  military  element  of  power  in  support  of  the  National AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 15 Security Strategy.  The National Military Strategy defines U.S. military objectives (the ends), establishes the strategy to accomplish these objectives (the ways), and addresses the military capabilities  required  to  execute  the  strategy  (the  means).      It  also  describes  the  strategic landscape and discusses  potential threats  and risks.  The Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan is the  primary  vehicle  through  which  the  Chairman  directs  the  preparation  of  joint  plans.    It provides  military  strategic  and  operational  guidance  to  combatant  commands,  the  services, and  DOD  agencies  for  preparation  of  campaign  and  contingency  plans  based  on  current military  capabilities.    It  serves  as  the  link  between  the  strategic  guidance  provided  in  the Guidance  for  the  Employment  of  the  Force  and  joint  operation  planning  activities  and products  that  accomplish  that  guidance.    Global  Force  Management  Implementation Guidance guides the global sourcing processes of combatant command force requirements; it integrates assignment, apportionment, and allocation information into a single Global  Force Management document for force planning and execution. 3.3.  Joint Planning  3.3.1.  Planning is the process that translates strategic guidance and direction into campaign plans, contingency plans, and operation orders (OPORDs). 3.3.1.1.  The headquarters, commands, and agencies involved in joint operation planning or  committed  to  a  joint  operation  are  collectively  termed  the  Joint  Planning  and Execution Community.  The supported combatant commander has primary responsibility for all aspects of a task assigned by the Guidance for Employment of the Force, the Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan or other directives and prepares plans and orders in response to requirements generated by the President or the Secretary of Defense.  Once approved by  the  Secretary  or  the  Chairman,  the  supporting  commanders  then  provide  planning assistance,  forces,  or  other  resources  to  a  supported  commander,  preparing  supporting plans  as  required.    A  commander  may  be  a  supporting  commander  for  one  operation while being a supported commander for another. 3.3.1.2.  Joint  operation  planning  occurs  within  Adaptive  Planning  and  Execution,  a system  of  joint  policies,  processes,  procedures,  and  reporting  structures  that  monitor, plan, and execute activities associated with joint operations.  Its processes ensure that the military instrument of national power is employed in accordance with national priorities, and that the plan is continuously reviewed and updated as required and adapted according to changes in strategic guidance, resources, or the operational environment.  The focus is on developing plans that contain a variety of viable embedded options for the President and Secretary of Defense as they seek to shape a situation and respond to contingencies; this facilitates responsive plan development and modification, resulting in continually up-to-date  plans.    The  process  also  promotes  involvement  with  other  U.S.  Government organizations and multinational partners.  It uses a technology called the Joint Operation Planning  and  Execution  System  (JOPES),  DOD’s  single  integrated  joint  command  and control  system  for  operation  planning  and  execution.    Within  the  Air  Force,  JOPES  is supported  by  the  Deliberate  and  Crisis  Action  Planning  and  Execution  Segment (DCAPES).    DCAPES  is  the  Air  Force’s  sole  capability  to  present,  plan,  source, mobilize,  deploy,  account  for,  sustain,  redeploy,  and  reconstitute  Air  Force  forces satisfying combatant commanders’ requirements. 16 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 3.3.2.  Deliberate  or  Contingency  Planning. the preparation  of  plans  in  non-crisis  situations.    It  is  used  to  develop  campaign  plans  and contingency  plans  for  a  broad  range  of  activities  based  on  requirements  identified  in  joint strategic planning documents.     Deliberate  planning  encompasses 3.3.2.1.  Global  campaign  plans  and  theater  campaign  plans  are  the  centerpiece  of  the planning  construct  and  operationalize  combatant  command  theater  or  functional strategies.  Campaign plans are for a series of related major operations aimed at achieving strategic or operational objectives within a given time and space.  While they have their greatest  application  in  the  conduct  of  large-scale  combat  operations,  they  can  be  used across the range of military operations.  Campaign plans focus on the command’s steady state  activities,  which  include  ongoing  operations,  military  engagement,  security cooperation,  deterrence,  and  other  shaping  or  preventive  activities.    The  Guidance  for Employment  of  the  Force  guides  the  development  of  contingency  plans,  which  address potential  threats  that  put  one  or  more  end  states  at  risk  in  ways  that  warrant  military operations.    Contingency  plans  are  built  to  account  for  the  possibility  that  steady  state activities could fail to prevent aggression, to preclude large-scale instability in a key state or region, or to mitigate effects of a natural or man-made disaster.   Under the campaign planning  concept,  contingency  plans  are  conceptually  considered  branches  of  the overarching campaign plans.   3.3.2.1.1.  Contingency  plans  should  provide  a  range  of  military  options,  to  include flexible  deterrent  options  (FDOs)  to  respond  to  rapidly  changing  strategic  and military  conditions.   Flexible deterrent  options are developed for each instrument of national  power—diplomatic,  informational,  military,  and  economic—but  are  most effective  when  used  in  combination.    Key  goals  of  FDOs  are  to  deter  aggression through communicating the strength of U.S. commitments; to confront the adversary with unacceptable costs for possible aggression; to isolate the adversary from regional neighbors  and  attempt  to  split  the  adversary  coalition;  and  to  rapidly  improve  the military  balance  of  power  without  precipitating  armed  response  from  the  adversary.  Informational FDOs may include such actions as increasing public awareness of the problem  and  potential  for  conflict;  publicizing  violations  of  international  law; publicizing joint  exercises,  or  military  capability; maintaining  an  open  dialogue  with  the  news  media;  heightening  international awareness of the potential for conflict; promoting U.S. and/or coalition objectives for an  operation;  combatting  adversary  disinformation;  and  gaining  and  maintaining public support. increased  force  presence, 3.3.3.  Crisis Action Planning.  Crisis action planning is driven by current events in real time and  involves  the  development  of  joint  OPLANs  and  OPORDs  for  the  deployment, employment, and sustainment of forces and resources in response to an imminent crisis.  It is a  compression  of  the  deliberate  planning  process  in  which  a  deliberate  plan  is  tailored  to meet  existing  operational  requirements  or  a  new  plan  is  developed  based  on  mission requirements and available resources. 3.4.  The  Joint  Operation  Planning  Process.  The  joint  operation  planning  process  is  an orderly,  analytical  method  to  analyze  a  mission;  develop,  analyze,  and  compare  alternative courses  of  action  (COAs);  select  the  best  course  of  action;  and  produce  a  joint  OPLAN  or OPORD.  It focuses on defining the military mission and developing and synchronizing detailed AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 17 plans  to  accomplish  that  mission.    Through  this  process,  planners  translate  planning  guidance into a feasible COA and concept of operations by which the joint force can achieve its assigned mission and military end state.  Planners align actions and resources in time and space, ensuring options  are  fully  developed,  resources  are  identified,  and  risk  is  identified  and  mitigated.  Planners develop the concept of operations, force plans, deployment plans, and supporting plans that  contain  multiple  options  to  provide  flexibility  to  adapt  to  changing  conditions  and  remain consistent with the joint force commander’s intent. 3.4.1.  The joint operation planning process begins when an appropriate authority recognizes the potential for military capability to be employed in response to a potential or actual crisis; at the strategic level, that authority—the President, the Secretary of Defense, or Chairman—initiates planning by deciding to develop military options.   3.4.1.1.  Mission  analysis  considers  all  strategic  and  initial  planning  guidance  and identifies the tasks that clearly indicate the action to be taken and the reason for doing so.  It helps the joint force commander understand the problem and purpose of the operation and issue appropriate guidance to drive the rest of the planning process.  During mission analysis,  it  is  essential  that  specified  and  implied  tasks  and  their  purposes  are  clearly stated to ensure planning encompasses all requirements and that limitations (restraints—cannot  do,  and  constraints—mandated  to  do)  are  understood.    The  primary  products  of mission  analysis  are  staff  estimates  (an  evaluation  of  how  factors  in  a  functional  area, such as PA, support and impact the mission), the mission statement, a refined operational approach, the commander’s intent statement, updated planning guidance, an initial force analysis,  commander’s  critical  information  requirements,  risk  assessment,  and  mission success criteria development.   3.4.1.2.  Mission analysis leads to COA development.  Courses of action provide unique choices to the commander, all oriented on achieving the military end state.  A good COA accomplishes the mission within the commander’s guidance, provides flexibility to meet unforeseen  events  during  execution,  and  positions  the  force  for  future  operations.  Courses  of  action  should  focus  on  centers  of  gravity  and  decisive  points.    A  center  of gravity is the source of power that provides moral or physical strength, freedom of action, or will to act.  A decisive point is a geographic place, specific key event, critical factor, or function that, when acted upon, allows commanders to gain a marked advantage over an adversary  or  contribute  materially  to  achieving  success.    Both  friendly  and  adversary centers of gravity and decisive points are considered. 3.4.1.3.  Courses  of  action  are  then  analyzed  and  wargamed  to  identify  their  relative advantages,  disadvantages,  feasibility,  and  acceptability,  and  compared  to  evaluation criteria  to  identify  the  one  that  best  accomplishes  the  mission.    Once  the  commander selects  a  COA,  it  is  developed  into  a  commander’s  estimate.    Designed  to  provide  the Secretary of Defense with military options, the commander’s estimate provides a concise narrative  of  how  the  commander  intends  to  accomplish  the  mission,  providing  the necessary focus for campaign planning and contingency plan development.   3.4.1.4.  An executable concept of operations (CONOPS) or concept plan (CONPLAN) is then  developed,  clearly  and  concisely  expressing  what  the  commander  intends  to accomplish  and  how  it  will  be  done  using  available  resources.    It  describes  how  the actions  of  the  joint  force  components  and  supporting  organizations  are  integrated, 18 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 synchronized,  and  phased  to  accomplish  the  mission,  including  potential  branches  and sequels.    It  becomes  the  eventual  centerpiece  of  the  OPLAN  or  OPORD.    Deliberate planning  results  in  OPLAN  development,  while  crisis  action  planning  typically  leads directly to OPORD development. 3.4.1.5.  An  OPLAN  is  normally  prepared  when  the  contingency  is  critical  to  national security  and  requires  detailed  planning;  the  magnitude  or  timing  of  the  contingency requires detailed planning; detailed planning is needed to support multinational planning; or  detailed  planning  is  necessary  to  determine  force  deployment,  employment, sustainment,  and  redeployment  requirements,  determine  available  resources  to  fill identified  requirements,  and  validate  shortfalls.    It  contains  a  full  description  of  the concept  of  operations,  all  annexes  applicable  to  the  plan,  and  the  Time  Phased  Force Deployment  Data  (TPFDD).    It  identifies  the  specific  forces,  functional  support,  and resources  required  to  execute  the  plan  and  provides  estimates  for  their  flow  into  the theater.  An OPLAN can be quickly developed into an OPORD. 3.4.1.5.1.  The  TPFDD  is  the  electronic  data  portion  of  a  plan  that  exists  in JOPES/DCAPES and is usually managed at the service component level.  It contains detailed  requirements,  capabilities,  and  movement  data  that  support  Air  Force  and joint  plans,  including  the  time  phasing  of  forces  to  specific  destinations  (called routing data). Through the use of UTCs, this information also includes personnel and equipment  details.    Its  management  includes  requirements  determination;  sourcing, verification, and validation of forces; and continued TPFDD maintenance.  Planners at the supported component headquarters develop Air Force requirements by UTC to express the total expeditionary force needed to meet the specified mission objectives.  These unique requirements are referred to as unit line numbers (ULNs).  This initiates the joint deployment process.   3.4.1.5.2.  Operation  orders  are  directives  issued  by  a  commander  to  subordinate commanders  to  effect  the  coordinated  execution  of  an  operation.    (A  fragmentary order,  or  FRAGO,  changes  a  previously  issued  OPORD  or  executes  a  branch  or sequel  to  that  order.)    OPORDs  include  a  summary  of  the  general  situation  that ensures  understanding  of  the  background  of  the  planned  operation;  the  mission statement;  commander’s  intent  and  objectives,  tasks,  and  assignments  by  phase;  the concept  of support for logistics, personnel,  and  medical  services;  and command and control considerations. 3.5.  Plan  Execution.  Execution  begins  when  the  President  decides  to  use  a  military  option  to resolve a crisis.  Only the President or Secretary of Defense can authorize the Chairman to issue an  execute  order  (EXORD).    The  EXORD  defines  the  unnamed  day  on  which  operations commence or are scheduled to commence (D-day) and the specific time an operation begins (H-hour)  and  directs  execution  of  the  OPORD.    While  OPORD  operations  commence  on  the specified  D-day  and  H-hour,  deployments  providing  forces,  equipment,  and  sustainment  are defined  by  C-day,  an  unnamed  day  on  which  a  deployment  operation  commences  or  is  to commence, and L-hour.   3.5.1.  The  supported  commander’s  force  requests  are  allocated  in  the  Chairman’s  Global Force  Management  Allocation  Plan.    The  joint  force  provider  publishes  the  Global  Force Management  Allocation  Plan  Annex  Schedule  to  order  forces  to  deploy;  it  serves  as  the AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 19 deployment  order  (DEPORD)  for  all  global  allocations  (deployment  of  forces  from  one combatant commander to another).  3.5.2.  Planning continues during execution, with an initial emphasis on refining the existing plan,  producing  the  OPORD,  and  refining  the  force  flow.    As  the  operation  progresses, planning generally occurs in three distinct but overlapping time frames.  Future Plans focuses on  the  next  phase  of  operations  or  sequels  to  the  current  operation.    Future  Operations focuses on branches to current operations and is focused on a time frame more near term than the Future Plans time frame.  Current Operations planning addresses the immediate or very near-term planning issues associated with ongoing operations.  3.6.  Public  Affairs  Planning.  Well-planned  PA  operations  should  be  incorporated  in  every phase of operations.   Public Affairs Airmen must take an active role in  planning, coordinating, and synchronizing public information activities and resources to support the commander’s intent, concept  of  operations,  and  desired  end  state.  (T-2).    While  PA  planning  encompasses  both operational  planning  and  communication  planning,  operational  planning  is  the  focus  of  this instruction.  3.6.1.  Operational  PA  Planning.    There  are  a  number  of  practical  considerations  to  be addressed during operational PA planning.  Public and media interest in military operations tends to be highest at the onset of operations or outbreak of hostilities, creating an immediate high  demand  for  information.    Authorities  to  plan,  integrate,  approve,  and  disseminate information  and  imagery  should  be  clearly  established.    Public  Affairs  Guidance  (PAG) should  address  legal  considerations  regarding  release  of  imagery  and  information  on activities in the joint operations area, including those regarding alleged law of war violations and  visual  information  requirements.    Support  to  news  media,  command  information, interagency  coordination,  and  countering  adversary  propaganda  should  also  be  addressed.  See JP 3-61, Public Affairs, for additional PA planning considerations.  3.6.1.1.  Public  Affairs  Force  Availability.    The  OPLAN  and  TPFDD  together  tell component  headquarters  PA  planners  what  needs  to  be  done  and  what  PA  forces  are deploying.    Unit  plans  or  logistics  readiness  offices  can  provide  insight  into  current OPLAN TPFDDs.  Components must consult the AEF Capability Library to see what PA forces  are  available  and  take  into  consideration  current  deployments  when  establishing new  requirements;  AFPC/DPW,  AF/A1PR,  and  AF/A3  will  work  through  SAF/PAR  to validate  new  requirements  prior  to  sourcing.    The  AEF  Capability  Library  consists  of 100% of the Air Force’s postured capability and encompasses one iteration of each AEF deployment  vulnerability  period.    It  contains  a  finite  capability  that  at  any  given  time identifies forces that  constitute the total  force that  has been made available or  allocated for scheduling.  The AEF Capability Library is the basis for the AEF schedule.  3.6.1.1.1.  Air  Force  War  and  Mobilization  Plan-1/Public  Affairs  Annex.    The  Air Force  War  and  Mobilization  Plan,  Volume  1  (WMP-1),  outlines  specific  guidance, references,  and considerations Air  Force component  headquarters planners must use when developing supporting plans.  The WMP-1 PA annex delineates concepts, broad policies,  and  planning  guidance  for  PA  support  across  the  spectrum  of  operations.  Air  Force  PA  planners  are  required  to  adhere  to  guidance  in  the  WMP-1  PA  annex and this AFI when building PA requirements.   20 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 3.6.1.2.  Operational  Plan  Annexes.    The  supported  combatant  command  PA  staff  is responsible for PA planning and execution within a specific theater, while air component headquarters  PA  staffs  create  sub-plans  to  support  both  joint  and  Air  Force  mission requirements.  CJCSM 3130.03 prescribes OPLAN procedures and formats for both the basic plan and annexes.  Air Force PAs at units subordinate to air component commands must  plan  to  support  both  combatant  command  and  air  component  requirements;  PAs serving  stateside  or  in  commands  outside  the  supported  combatant  command  chain  of command  must  do  the  same,  ensuring  support  to  both  forward  and  rear  areas  of operations.  (T-1).    Public  Affairs  planners  must  have  the  level  of  security  clearance appropriate to the classification of the plans. (T-0).  3.6.1.2.1.  Public Affairs planners are responsible for development of Annex F, Public Affairs, and Annex C, Appendix 10, Combat Camera. 3.6.1.2.1.1.  OPLAN  Annex  F,  Public  Affairs  (see  Attachment  2).    Annex  F assigns  responsibilities,  provides  guidance  for,  and  outlines  PA  support  of  the operation;  this  includes  visual  information  requirements  where  specialized Combat  Camera  capabilities  are  not  required.    Annex  F  identifies  assumptions, specifies tasks, outlines procedures, delineates requirements for release authority, addresses PAG development, establishes ground rules, and provides a coordinated list  of  administrative,  logistics,  personnel,  and  equipment  requirements  and  how they are satisfied.   3.6.1.2.1.2.  OPLAN  Annex  C  (Appendix  10),  Combat  Camera  (see  Attachment 3).    Annex  C  (Appendix  10)  describes  the  concept  of  operations  for  Combat Camera  forces,  to  include  tasks,  required  capabilities,  and  administrative, logistics,  and  command  and  control  requirements  and  how  they  are  satisfied.  Combatant  Commander  planning  responsibilities  for  Combat  Camera  are addressed  in  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  Instruction  3205.01C,  Joint Combat  Camera.    Where  rapid  global  response,  aerial  visual  documentation, special operations, or combat maneuver and capability are not required, traditional visual  information  resources,  not  Combat  Camera,  will  be  used.    In  that  case, Annex  C,  Appendix  10,  may  simply  refer  to  Annex  F,  Public  Affairs,  where visual information requirements are established. 3.6.1.2.2.  While responsible for Annex F and Annex C (Appendix 10), PA planners must review all OPLAN annexes; four merit particular attention: 3.6.1.2.2.1.  OPLAN  Annex  Y,  Commander’s  Communication  Strategy.    Annex Y addresses how the commander plans to  coordinate, synchronize, and integrate military  communication  capabilities  to  support  U.S.  Government  strategic communication  objectives  and  guidance.   Commander’s  communication synchronization  is  the  process  for  coordinating  and  synchronizing  themes, messages,  images,  operations,  and  actions  to  support  strategic  communication-related  objectives  and  ensure  the  integrity  and  consistency  of  themes  and messages to the lowest tactical level through the integration and synchronization of  all  relevant  communication  activities.    Communication  planners  should consider  national  communication  goals  and  strategic  objectives  in  the  planning process.  The commander's plan details how to employ military forces to engage AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 21 specific  audiences  and  coordinate  joint  force  actions  with  interorganizational partners to  achieve unity of effort.  Such integration ensures maximum trust and credibility with relevant audiences, stakeholders, and publics.  See Joint Doctrine Note 2-13, Commander’s Communication Synchronization, for more information. 3.6.1.2.2.2.  OPLAN  Annex  C  (Appendix  3),  Information  Operations.    Annex  C (Appendix  3)  summarizes  how  the  commander  visualizes  executing  IO  and describes  how  IO  and  its  supporting  and  related  capabilities,  including  Combat Camera and Public Affairs, supports the command’s operational mission.  See JP 3-13, Information Operations, for more information. 3.6.1.2.2.3.  OPLAN  Annex  G,  Civil  Affairs.    Annex  G  assesses  the  impact  of adversary  capabilities  and  probable  COAs  affecting  civil  affairs,  with  particular emphasis on identifying requirements for civil affairs functions and activities.  It summarizes the expected civil affairs situation, including government institutions, customs and attitudes of the population, and availability of indigenous resources.  See JP 3-57, Civilian-Military Operations, for more information. 3.6.1.2.2.4.  OPLAN Annex V, Interagency Coordination.  Annex V describes the proposed  concept  for  interagency  coordination  during  both  planning  and execution  to  ensure  unity  of  effort  and  appropriate  deconfliction.    See  Joint Publication 3-08, Interorganizational Coordination During Joint Operations, for more information. 3.7.  Training  and  Exercise  Planning.  All  PA  Airmen  are  expeditionary.    Training  for  PA Airmen  is  accomplished  in  accordance  with  Headquarters  Air  Force,  component  headquarters, and SAF/PA policy.  In addition to combat skills and/or other specialized training, Airmen may be tasked, IAW AFI 10-401, Chapter 13, to fill validated exercise requirements based on their AEF  training  windows  or  guidance  provided  by  appropriate  authority.    Participation  by  PA Airmen  in  exercises  such  as  Unified  Endeavor,  Bright  Star,  Vigilant  Shield,  Ulchi  Freedom Guardian, etc., helps hone skills required for actual contingency deployment.   3.7.1.  Public  Affairs  planners  must  participate  in  exercise  planning  and  provide  injects  via the Master Scenario Events List (MSEL) database. (T-1).  To be effective both in evaluating the readiness of XFFG UTCs and in providing training opportunities, exercises duplicate the deployed location command structure and PA tasks and responsibilities as much as possible.  Public  Affairs-specific  scenarios  should  test  Airmen’s  ability  to  perform  the  MISCAP  for participating UTCs.  Since deploying units can expect to draw media attention both at home station and at the deployed location, where local sentiment may range from strong support to opposition  demonstrations,  exercise  scenarios  should  account  for  a  range  of  reactions  to familiarize  command  staff  and  Airmen  with  potential  situations  they  may  encounter  during an  actual  deployment.    The  impact  of  social  media  should  also  be  demonstrated.    Visual information  requirements  are  also  identified,  exercised,  and  supported.    See  AFI  10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, for more information.   22 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 3.7.2.  Public  Affairs  planners  are  integral  to  planning  conferences  and  processes.    Public Affairs Airmen will work with planning staffs to leverage participation to execute effective communication  strategies.    Public  Affairs  planners  will  attain  appropriate  clearances  and access  to  relevant  information  technology  systems  for  a  comprehensive  site  picture  of operations.  Planners will execute a synchronized communication strategy through deliberate PA support in accordance with the joint force commander’s objectives and lines of operation. AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 23 Chapter 4 POSTURING, CODING, REPORTING, AND SOURCING 4.1.  Public  Affairs  as  a  Combat  Capability.  Information  in  the  public  domain  impacts  the operational  environment  (JP  3-61,  Public  Affairs).    Public  Affairs  forces  are  foremost  a deployable combat capability, fully trained and prepared to meet the needs of the joint warfighter inside  and  outside  the  wire.    The  mission  of  PA  is  to  plan,  coordinate,  and  synchronize  U.S. military  public  information  activities  and  resources  in  support  of  the  commander’s  intent  and concept  of  operations.    Public  Affairs  leverages  communication  capabilities  through  an integrated  approach  to  advance  the  commander’s  mission  priorities.    Public  Affairs  enhances Airman  morale  and  readiness  to  accomplish  the  mission;  gains  and  maintains  public  trust  and support for military operations; provides trusted counsel to leaders; communicates U.S. resolve in  a  manner  that  directly  affects  the  operational  environment  through  global  influence  and deterrence;  and  ensures  visual  documentation  of  joint  and  Air  Force  operations  on  the  ground and in the air. 4.2.  AEF  Force  Generation  Construct.  The  Air  Force  supports  combatant  commander requirements  through  a  combination  of  assigned,  attached  (rotational),  and  mobility  forces  that may be forward deployed, transient, or operating from home station.  The AEF is the Air Force’s team-focused,  unit-  or  specialized  capabilities-based  construct  for  organizing,  training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive forces while maintaining the highest possible level of overall readiness.  Airmen are sourced from both the readily available force, representing the Air  Force’s  warfighting  capability,  and  the  institutional  force,  which  provides  the  Air  Force’s sustainment capability necessary to meet Secretary of the Air Force statutory functions outlined in Title 10 United States Code Section 8013(b), Secretary of the Air Force. 4.2.1.  Warfighting  Force.    The  warfighting  force  is  the  primary  pool  from  which  the  Air Force fulfills deployment requirements.  To meet these requirements, the Air Force aligns its active  component  warfighting  capabilities  (forces  from  organizations  with  a  unit  descriptor code  (UDC)  of  A  (combat),  D  (combat  support),  or  T  (combat  service  support)  into  unit-based  teams  built  around  Air  Force  core  capabilities  and  missions.    Organizations  that provide  a  unique  capability  or  cannot  support  requirements  using  a  standard  rotational construct  operate  as  Demand  Force  Teams.    All  PA  UTCs  (both  XFFG  and  LBFA)  are assigned as Demand Force Teams.   4.2.2.  Institutional  Force.   The  institutional  force  consists  of  Airmen  assigned  to organizations responsible for carrying out service-level Title 10 United States Code functions such as recruit, organize, train,  equip,  etc.  Although these organizations as a whole do not represent a warfighting capability, Airmen assigned to these organizations are assigned AEF Indicators and are inherently deployable.  Institutional force organizations, identified with a unit  descriptor  code  of  X  (Other),  do  not  posture  UTCs  in  the  AEF  Capability  Library  and therefore cannot report UTC status in ART.  However, all Airmen contribute to the AEF and are inherently deployable.  Airmen assigned to the institutional force are managed with AEF Indicators  that  assign  them  to  an  AEF  deployment  vulnerability  period  during  which  they may be deployed. 24 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 4.2.3.  Cross-Utilization.  While the readily available force is primarily used to source unit-like (i.e., non-Individual Augmentee) deployment requirements and the institutional force is primarily used to source Individual Augmentee (IA) requirements on a joint service staff, PA must regularly  cross-utilize between these two sourcing pools due to  its force structure and the nature of its deployments.  Therefore, SAF/PAR may source unit-like requirements from the institutional  force and may source  Individual Augmentee requirements from  the readily available force as needed to meet combatant commander requirements, per AFI 10-401, para 2.6. 4.2.4.  Air  Reserve  Components.   Air  Reserve  Components  determine  and  publish component-specific AEF Indicator policy.  See AFI 10-401, para 3.8, regarding Air Reserve Component  utilization.  Individual  Mobilization  Augmentees  (IMAs)  assigned  to  HQ  Air Force Reserve Command are assigned AEF  Indicators by  HQ AFRC.    Indicators for  IMAs assigned to other organizations are determined by their assigned organization commander. 4.3.  Public  Affairs  UTC  Posturing  and  Coding.  The  basic  building  block  used  in  force planning and the deployment of Air Expeditionary Forces is the UTC.  A UTC defines a military capability.  Along with the title description and MISCAP, the UTC can consist of the manpower force element (MFE) only, equipment (LOGDET) only, or both manpower and equipment.  Unit type codes are capable of stand-alone operations within their functional area and should be able to  perform  its  mission  from  a  bare  base  or  established  main  operating  base.    Each  UTC  has  a MISCAP that defines the basic mission it is capable of accomplishing.  UTCs are represented by a  5-character  alphanumeric  code,  with  the  first  four  characters  representing  the  functional  area and its distinct capabilities.  Public Affairs UTCs are standard UTCs represented by either XFFG (Public  Affairs  or  Combat  Camera)  or  LBFA  (Band)  and  are  listed  in  Table  4.1.    Within  the AEF, UTCs are made visible and available through posturing and coding. Table 4.1.  Public Affairs Unit Type Codes. UTC Title  Public Affairs Company Grade Officer (all 35P O-3 authorizations) Public Affairs Field Grade Officer (all 35P O-4 and O-5 authorizations) Public Affairs Colonel (all 35P O-6 authorizations) Public Affairs Ops Superintendent (all 3N0 E7 and E8 authorizations) Public Affairs Senior Manager (all 3N0 E-9 authorizations)  XFFG1 XFFG2 XFFG3 XFFG5 XFFG6 XFFGC  Public Affairs Broadcaster (all E-4 – E-6 3N0X2 authorizations) XFFGD  Public Affairs Photojournalist (all E-4 – E6 3N0X5 authorizations)  XFFGZ  Public Affairs Associate UTC (3-level 3N0 auths & 35P O-2 authorizations)  XFFGF  Combat Camera Aerial Photo Documentation (all Combat Camera-assigned E-4 –   E-7 3N0X5 authorizations) XFFGG  Combat Camera Aerial Video Documentation (all Combat Camera-assigned E-4 – E7 3N0X2 authorizations) XFFGH  Combat Camera Ground Photographer (all Combat Camera-assigned E-4 – E-7  3N0X5 authorizations)  AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 25 XFFGJ  Combat Camera Ground Videographer (all Combat Camera-assigned E-4 – E-7 3N0X2 authorizations)  XFFGM  Public Affairs/Combat Camera Systems Support  LBFA1  Band Advanced Echelon (ADVON) (35B band officer and senior NCO) LBFA2 LBFA3  Band State Funeral (State Funeral Plan only) LBFA4  U.S. Air Force Band State Funeral (State Funeral Plan NCR only) LBFAZ  Band Associate UTC  10-passenger Band 4.3.1.  Posturing.  Posturing refers to converting unit authorizations into UTCs.     4.3.1.1.  Because  they  primarily  constitute  the  Air  Force’s  warfighting  capability,  all funded  military  authorizations  (whether  filled  or  vacant)  in  the  readily  available (rotational/warfighting)  force  are  accounted  for  and  postured  as  UTCs  in  the  AEF Capability Library in DCAPES and their status reported in ART.   4.3.1.2.  Individual  Mobilization  Augmentee  (IMA)  authorizations  are  not  postured  in UTCs.  Individual Mobilization Augmentees are managed by their AEF Indicator.   4.3.1.3.  Public  Affairs  Airmen  assigned  to  organizations  outside  the  Air  Force  are  not postured.  They may deploy to  fill  Air Force requirements only  with  the consent of the joint command and approval of SAF/PAR. 4.3.1.4.  See para 4.7.1 for Combat Camera posturing. 4.3.1.5.  See para 4.8.1 for Air Force band posturing. 4.3.2.  Coding.  Coding (also called posturing coding or P-coding) refers to the availability of the  UTC.   Posturing  codes  signify  the  minimum  number  of  UTCs  required  for assigned/committed  missions,  the  minimum  number  of  UTCs  required  for  home  station support,  and  the  maximum  number  of  UTCs  of  that  type  within  a  specific  unit  that  can  be deployed simultaneously. 4.3.2.1.  The first character of the P-Code (D for deployable or A for associate) shows the deployable  capability  as  a  standard  deployable  D-UTC  or  associate  A-UTC.    All  PA UTCs are standard deployable (D*).   to  accomplish  assigned/committed  missions,  which 4.3.2.2.  The second character is used in determining the maximum simultaneously tasked UTCs that can be used under surge conditions.   DP  is  used for UTCs that  represent  the minimum  required includes combatant commander missions as well as those of external organizations/agencies.  DX is used for UTCs required to continue critical home station operations (in-place Air Force missions)  not  associated  with  assigned/committed  (combatant  commander)  missions.  (Note:  DP and DX codes are used to support deployment planning in the AEF; they are not used to determine if/when an Airman is available or eligible to deploy.)  DW is used for  UTCs  that  are  rotationally  available  for  sourcing;  they  represent  the  maximum simultaneous deployment capability of the unit and is determined by subtracting both the capability  required  for  assigned/committed  missions  (DP)  and  in-place  Air  Force missions (DX).   26 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 4.3.2.3.  In  order  to  meet  global  demand  for  PA  capabilities,  PA  FAMs  should  ensure XFFG UTCs are coded DW to the maximum extent possible.  P-coding is reviewed at the annual PA planning and sourcing workshop.  See para 4.7.1 for Combat Camera coding.  See para 4.8.2 for Air Force band coding.  4.3.2.4.  Apprentice  (3-level)  and  lieutenant  authorizations,  when  postured  as  UTCs, represent  an  exception  to  D*  coding  because  there  are  no  apprentice  (3-level)  or lieutenant XFFG UTCs.  These authorizations are postured as XFFGZ, an associate (not a standard) UTC.  Associate UTCs are placeholders for funded military authorizations that cannot  be  described  by  or  do  not  fit  into  an  existing  standard  UTC.    While  associate UTCs themselves are not deployable, Airmen filling these authorizations are assigned an AEF Indicator and are deployable.  For instance, while not used to fill XFFG UTCs, 3-level  Airmen  may  be  tasked  by  their  commanders  for  Third  Country  National  (TCN) escort  or  postal  augmentation  deployments;  likewise,  PA  lieutenants  are  not  normally used  to  fill  PA  UTCs.    PA  FAMs  will  ensure  3-level  Airmen  and  lieutenants  are  not normally  used  to  fill  PA  UTCs;  case-by-case  exceptions  require  SAF/PAR  and  gaining unit approval. (T-1).  4.3.2.5.  Overages  (assigned  Airmen  greater  than  authorized)  are  not  postured  but  the wing  PA  chief  or  superintendent  must  still  ensure  the  Airman  is  assigned  an  AEF indicator. (T-1).  Since overage Airmen are eligible for tasking within their assigned AEF Indicator,  overages  should  be  evenly  distributed  across  AEF  deployment  vulnerability periods and not have the same AEF Indicator as the Airman with whom they are double-billeted,  since  otherwise  both  are  eligible  to  deploy  at  the  same  time.    Major  command FAMs must consider overages in developing sourcing solutions.   4.4.  Reporting  in  ART.  The  AEF  UTC  Reporting  Tool  (ART)  is  a  command  and  control system  designed  to  give  readiness  information  on  standard  UTCs  postured  in  the  UTC Availability  (UTA)  application  of  DCAPES  and  applies  to  all  Airmen  in  the  readily  available (rotational  or  warfighting)  force.    It  does  not  measure  a  UTC’s  availability  to  deploy,  only  its ability  to  meet  its  MISCAP  should  it  be  tasked.    It  provides  the  Air  Force  the  information  to make force and resource allocation decisions to effectively support combatant commanders.  For this reason, integrity in reporting an accurate status is paramount; ART is not a report card, but identifies a UTC’s ability to perform its mission and indicates resource shortages.  AFI 10-244, Reporting  Status  of  Aerospace  Expeditionary  Forces,  provides  detailed  guidance  for  reporting UTC status. 4.4.1.  Unit type code readiness assessments in ART are based on all aspects of the UTC, to include  (1)  the  ability  to  accomplish  the  MISCAP,  (2)  the  ability  to  fulfill  the  standard manpower requirements, and  (3) the ability to  fulfill the complete equipment requirements.  Commanders rate each UTC against current ability to deploy and employ the UTC.  Airmen must  be  fully  qualified  without  deployment  limitations  and  have  all  required  mission  and skill  level  training  complete.    Equipment  must  be  in  working  order  and  available  for deployment.    Any  shortfalls,  including  the  corrective  action  and  get-well  date,  must  be detailed  in  remarks.    Upon  notification  of  any  significant  event  that  changes  a  UTC’s assessment,  the  unit  commander  must  submit  an  out-of-cycle  report  within  24  hours  of  the change.  If an authorization is vacant, this must also be reflected in ART.   AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 27 4.4.2.  When  determining  ART  status,  a  deficiency  that  can  typically  be  corrected  within  a short time should be coded green.  For example, a UTC should not be coded  yellow or red just because the available Airman is overdue for self-aid/buddy care or firearms qualification.  Also, even if an available Airman has a duty limiting condition or medical profile that limits physical  activity,  the  UTC  is  coded  green  if  he  or  she  is  medically  worldwide  qualified (WWQ) since the WWQ status is controlling.  However, the UTC should be coded red if the available Airman has a DAV code that indicates deployment ineligibility.  In some instances, DAV  codes  may  be  waived.    Deployment  availability  codes  are  discussed  in  AFI  10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution. 4.5.  Sourcing  PA  Airmen  for  Deployment.  Public  Affairs  Airmen  are  selected  to  deploy based  on  parameters  established  in  AFI  10-401,  AFI  10-403,  this  instruction,  and  SAF/PA policy.    As  a  centrally  managed  function,  PA  deployments  are  sourced  by  SAF/PAR  based  on the annual PA planning and sourcing workshop attended by MAJCOM and select FOA/DRU PA FAMs and component headquarters PA planners.  SAF/PAR provides sourcing nominations (by MAJCOM)  to  the  Air  Force  force  provider  for  conventional  forces  for  submission  to  the  Joint Staff  as  outlined  in  annual  Air  Force  Global  Force  Management  planning  guidance.    The workshop  addresses  functional  readiness  issues  including  force  presentation  strategy,  planning guidance, training, equipment, and lessons learned.  Component headquarters PA planners also prioritize and validate existing requirements, which PA FAMs review and source from available UTCs  to  satisfy  OPLAN  taskings.    The  workshop  sources  requirements  for  up  to  a  24-month period.    In  between  sourcing  workshops,  changes  in  requirements  or  adjustments  in  Airman availability  are  addressed  and  adjudicated  by  SAF/PAR,  working  with  MAJCOM/FOA/DRU FAMs  and  component  headquarters  PA  planners.    Major  command  PA  directors  must  advise their  MAJCOM  vice  commanders  (or  designated  officials)  of  agreed  upon  sourcing  solutions made  during  the  annual  PA  planning  and  sourcing  workshop  to  preclude  nonconcurs  at  a  later date. 4.5.1.  Airmen  are  selected  to  deploy  based  primarily  on  their  ability  to  meet  the requirements of the deployed position, their AEF deployment vulnerability  period and their individual  deploy-to-dwell  rate,  with  Airmen  with  higher  dwell  rates  going  first.    Other factors  such  as  the  relative  effective  manning  of  PA  offices  that  can  provide  the  needed requirement may also be considered. 4.5.2.  Per  AFI  10-401,  para  9.19.1,  Airmen  who  volunteer  to  deploy  outside  their  AEF Indicator  deployment vulnerability period are still vulnerable to deploy during that period. 4.5.3.  Per  AFI  10-401,  para  2.5.2,  regardless  of  AEF  deployment  vulnerability  period,  all Airmen,  including  those  who  recently  redeployed  and  meet  all  reconstitution  requirements, are vulnerable for OPLAN tasking at all times if the Air Force determines the need to reach forward.   4.5.4.  Per  AFI  10-401,  para  2.5.2,  Airmen  who  deploy  within  their  AEF  deployment vulnerability  period  for  45  days  or  less  may  be  considered  for  a  second  deployment  within that period. 4.5.5.  Per  AFI  10-401,  para  2.6,  if  requirements  exceed  forces  readily  available  within  the AEF  deployment  vulnerability  period,  the  AEF  is  designed  to  meet  increased  requirements via internal Air Force forced to source decisions working within the force assignment process and  the  Secretary  of  Defense’s  allocation  plan.    Forced  to  source  decisions  arise  from 28 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 increased  requirements  tasked  to  a  force  provider  via  the  Global  Force  Management Allocation  Plan  or  from  a  decreased  resource  capacity.    Forced  to  source  methods  include reaching deeper (using forces in the current AEF deployment vulnerability period that exceed the maximum simultaneous deployable capability), reaching forward (using forces in the next AEF  period),  and  sourcing  from  alternate  pools  (cross-sourcing)  within  the  AEF  period.  Forced to source decisions follow AFI 10-401, para 2.6. 4.5.6.  Public  Affairs  civilians  (Office  of  Personnel  Management  occupational  series  1001, 1020, 1035, 1060, 1071, and 1084), if they fully meet the mission capability statement for the UTC being filled, may volunteer to deploy with unit commander and MAJCOM PA director concurrence  and  approval  of  the  gaining  component  or  combatant  commander.    Civilian employees  must  meet  all  deployment  training  requirements  established  for  their  military counterparts. (T-1).  The AEF Online and DOD Civilian Expeditionary Workforce websites describe volunteer procedures and directives governing civilian deployments.   4.5.7.  Air  Reserve  Component  Airmen  may  volunteer  to  deploy  through  their  respective component FAM. 4.5.8.  Selections to fill 365-day extended deployments/indeterminate TDY requirements are made by AFPC IAW AFI 36-2110, Chapter 5. 4.5.9.  Cross-Functional UTCs.  Expeditionary PA capabilities may be tasked independently or as part of a cross-functional capability to support deliberate plans, contingencies, or steady state operations.  If a cross-functional UTC includes a requirement for PA support, the UTC manager must coordinate with the SAF/PAR FAM for approval and sourcing.   4.6.  Deployment  Funding.  All  deployments,  including  travel,  training,  equipment,  uniform items,  and  any  items  required  in  deployment  ULN  line  remarks,  are  funded  with  appropriated funds  using  a  local  unit  fund  cite  with  the  appropriate  Emergency  and  Special  Program  (ESP) code  assigned.    For  more  information  on  ESP  codes,  see  AFI  65-601,  Volume  1,  Budget Guidance and Procedures. 4.7.  Combat  Camera.  Combat  Camera  Airmen  are  uniquely  organized,  trained  (including  as fully  certified/qualified  aircrew  members),  and  equipped  for  rapid  global  response  to  provide documentation of air and ground operations.  They have the technological capability to acquire, process,  and  rapidly  transmit  classified  and  unclassified  still  and  motion  imagery  during  fast-moving operations at forward operating elements.   Combat Camera-acquired imagery supports operational planning, decision making, operational assessment, public information, intelligence, and historical documentation requirements.  Where rapid global response, aerial imagery, special operations,  or  combat  maneuver  and  capability  are  not  required,  traditional  visual  information resources,  not  Combat  Camera,  are  used.    The  component  headquarters  PA  has  oversight responsibility  for  deployed  Combat  Camera  teams  when  they  are  deployed  in  support  of  the COMAFFOR.  When deployed in direct support of the joint force commander, Combat Camera comes under the operational control of the Director of Operations (J-3).  When not deployed, Air Force Combat Camera units are under the operational control of the Air Force Director of Public Affairs. 4.7.1.  Combat Camera UTCs may be postured only in the Air Force Public Affairs Agency; no  other  units  posture  that  capability.    Because  of  their  unique  training,  qualifications  and experience,  aerial-qualified  Combat  Camera  Airmen  do  not  perform the  ground AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 29 documentation mission unless approved by the AFPAA director.  All Combat Camera UTCs are coded DW.  The Combat Camera Crisis Response Team is a 5-person team comprised of one each XFFG1, XFFGF, XFFGG, XFFGH and XFFGJ; it is not itself a UTC. 4.7.2.  Headquarters  AFPAA  and  its  subordinate  units  will  report  in  DRRS/SORTS  by  the 15th of each month IAW AFI 10-252, Defense Readiness and Reporting System, and AFI 10-201,  Status  of  Resources  and  Training  System,  with  significant  changes  in  the  unit mission assessment  and/or  MET  readiness  levels  reported  within  24  hours.    HQ  AFPAA  and SAF/PAR  continuously  monitor  changes  in  the  overall  category  level  (C-level),  overall reason  code,  measured  area  levels,  measured  area  reason  codes,  percent  effective  (PCTEF) data,  get  well  dates,  and  unit  location.    Reporting  in  DRRS/SORTS  does  not  replace  ART reporting, which is also accomplished.   4.8.  Air  Force  Bands.  Air Force bands provide a unique capability to  deployed commanders.  They perform as small ensembles and tour throughout a theater of operations to foster, enhance, and lift the morale and esprit de corps of Airmen in forward deployed locations.   Using music to bridge  language,  cultural,  societal,  and  socio-economic  differences,  bands  also  perform  for partner nation audiences and support diplomatic initiatives to help build partnerships, strengthen international  relationships,  and  communicate  a  broader,  deeper  sense  of  meaning  behind  their ideas  and  messages.    See  AFI  35-110,  U.S.  Air  Force  Band  Program,  for  information  on  Air Force band missions, capabilities, and operations. 4.8.1.  All Air Force band members (AFSCs 3N1, 3N2 and 35B)  are postured in UTCs and are deployable to support AEF requirements.  When not deployed, they should be available to practice, rehearse, and train with their assigned band and to perform in the community as required. 4.8.2.  Air Force bands (LBFA UTCs) deploy on a rotational schedule; the Air Staff FAM at SAF/PA coordinates band UTC sourcing and in-theater report dates with tasked band units.  The senior Air Force PA officer assigned to the Air Component Commander is responsible for  directing  Air  Force  band  operations  in  the  AOR;  an  Air  Force  Band  Officer  in  Charge and/or a Director of Band Operations typically plan and oversee the execution of all deployed Air  Force  band  activities,  including  coordinating  with  deployed  commanders  and  PA  staffs regarding planned events and support requirements.   30 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Chapter 5 AFTER ACTION REPORTS 5.1.  Purpose.  Functional  after  action  reporting  allows  PA  to  capture,  share,  and  learn  from lessons  gained  from  Airmen’s  knowledge  and  experience.    Observations  should  describe  the mission  and  how  to  best  prepare  for  it,  how  the  mission  was/could  be  improved,  resources available or that need to be made available, etc.  After action reports are intended to be more than a summary or rollup of actions; they should describe successes, challenges, and suggestions that improve the operational capability and effectiveness of future deployers. 5.2.  Responsibilities. 5.2.1.  All PA Airmen.  Within 45 days of returning from a deployment or major exercise, all PA Airmen will forward an unclassified after action report to their immediate supervisor and their  MAJCOM  FAM,  who  will  forward  it  to  SAF/PAR  at  usaf.pentagon.saf-pa.mbx.saf-par-force-management@mail.mil  within  5  duty  days.    (T-3).    Any  information  classified Secret  or  Confidential  is  transmitted  via  the  Secure  Internet  Protocol  Router  Network (SIPRNet) to usaf.pentagon.saf-pa.mbx.saf-pa-saf-par-force-management-mbx@mail.smil.mil. 5.2.1.1.  After action report format. 5.2.1.1.1.  Rank and name 5.2.1.1.2.  Unit, duty station, duty phone (DSN & commercial), and duty e-mail  5.2.1.1.3.  Deployed unit and location (if unclassified) and dates deployed 5.2.1.1.4.  Duty schedule 5.2.1.1.5.  To whom (position title including military grade) PA reported 5.2.1.1.6.  Description of PA work performed, listed in order of amount of time spent  5.2.1.1.7.  Any non-PA work tasked to accomplish and how frequently 5.2.1.1.8.  PA equipment:  What  was most useful, what  you needed but  didn’t have, recommendations, etc. 5.2.1.1.9.  Personal  equipment:    What  was  particularly  useful,  what  you  needed  but didn’t have, recommendations, etc. 5.2.1.1.10.  What  PA  experience  you  or  other  PA  Airmen  lacked  that  would  have been helpful 5.2.1.1.11.  What  PA  or  other  training  was  particularly  helpful  or  would  have  been helpful 5.2.1.1.12.  Positive aspects of the deployment 5.2.1.1.13.  Negative aspects of the deployment 5.2.1.1.14.  Other successes, challenges,  and  suggestions  that  could  improve  the  operational  capability  and effectiveness of future PA deployers) comments/recommendations (include additional AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 31 5.2.2.  MAJCOM  FAMs.    Major  command  FAMs  will  ensure  their  Airmen  submit  after action reports within 45 days of returning from a deployment or major exercise and forward them to SAF/PAR within 5 duty days.  Major command FAMs will also review reports for intracommand trends, deficiencies, best practices, etc., and take appropriate action. 5.2.3.  SAF/PAR.  SAF/PAR will  review and validate submissions, identifying action items and sharing relevant information with the appropriate component headquarters PA director(s) to  incorporate  best  practices  and  practical  guidance  into  standard  operating  procedures, training, equipment, etc.   KATHLEEN A. COOK, Brigadier General, USAF Director, Air Force Public Affairs 32 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References CJCSI 3205.01D, Joint Combat Camera, 20 October 2014 CJCSM 3130.03, Adaptive Planning and Execution Planning Formats and Guidance, 18 October 2012 Joint Doctrine Note 2-13, Commander’s Communication Synchronization, 16 December 2013 Joint Publication 3-08, Interorganizational Coordination During Joint Operations, 24 June 2011 Joint Publication 3-13, Information Operations, 27 November 2012 Joint Publication 3-57, Civil-Military Operations, 11 September 2013 Joint Publication 3-61, Public Affairs, 17 November 2015 Joint Publication 5-0, Joint Operation Planning, 11 August 2011 DODD 5122.05, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, 5 September 2008 DODI 5040.02, Visual Information, 27 October 2011 DODI 5400.13, Public Affairs (PA) Operations, 15 October 2008 DODI 5400.14, Procedures for Joint Public Affairs Operations, 3 November 2014 Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-13, Information Operations, 8 July 2013  Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-61, Public Affairs Operations, 19 June 2014 AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 19 April 2013 AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 27 March 2015 AFI 10-244, Reporting Status of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces, 15 June 2012  AFI 10-252, Defense Readiness and Reporting System, 9 August 2012 AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006 AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012 AFI 10-701, Operations Security, 8 June 2011 AFI 13-1AOC, Volume 3, Operational Procedures-Air Operations Center (AOC), 2 November 2011 AFI 13-103, AFFOR Staff Operations, Readiness and Structures, 19 August 2014 AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program, 29 May 2015 AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, 20 October 2009 AFI 35-110, U.S. Air Force Band Program, 11 August 2014 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 33 AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009 AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012 AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 28 September 2012 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFTTP 3-4, Airman’s Manual, 19 May 2015 U.S. Air Force State Funeral Support Plan (USAF SFSP), 12 July 2012 Abbreviations and Acronyms  ACC —Air Combat Command ADVON —Advanced Echelon AEF —Air Expeditionary Force AFFOR —Air Force Forces AFI —Air Force Instruction AFPAA —Air Force Public Affairs Agency AFPC —Air Force Personnel Center AFSC —Air Force Specialty Code AOC —Air Operations Center ART —AEF UTC Reporting Tool C-NAF —Component Numbered Air Force COA —Course of Action COMAFFOR —Commander, Air Force Forces CONOP —Concept of Operations CONPLAN —Concept Plan DAV —Deployment Availability DCAPES —Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segment DEPORD —Deployment Order DFT —Demand Force Team DOD —Department of Defense DRRS —Defense Readness Reporting System DRU —Direct Reporting Unit ESP – Emergency and Special Program—EXORD – Execute Order FAM —Functional Area Manager FDO —Flexible Deterrent Option 34 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 FOA —Field Operating Agency FRAGO —Fragmentary Order IA —Individual Augmentee IMA —Individual Mobilization Augmentee IO —Information Operations JOPES —Joint Operation Planning and Execution System JP —Joint Publication LOGDET —Logistics Detail MAJCOM —Major Command MEFPAK —Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging METL —Mission Essential Task List MFE —Manpower Force Element MilPDS —Military Personnel Data System MISCAP —Mission Capability Statement MSEL —Master Scenario Events List NCR —National Capital Region OPLAN —Operation Plan OPORD —Operation Order PA —Public Affairs PAG —Public Affairs Guidance PCTEF —Percent Effective PME —Professional Military Education SAF/PA —Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs SAF/PAR —SAF/PA Requirements and Development Division SORTS – Status of Resources and Training System—TDY – Temporary Duty TPFDD —Time Phased Force Deployment Data UDC —Unit Descriptor Code UDM —Unit Deployment Manager UIC —Unit Indicator Code UJTL —Universal Joint Task List ULN —Unit Line Number UTA – UTC Availability—UTC – Unit Type Code AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 35 WMP —War and Mobilization Plan WWQ —World Wide Qualified Terms  Adaptive  Planning  and  Execution  (APEX)  —The  Department  of  Defense  system  of  joint policies,  processes,  procedures,  and  reporting  structures,  supported  by  communications  and information technology, that is used by the joint planning and execution community to monitor, plan,  and  execute  mobilization,  deployment,  employment,  sustainment,  redeployment,  and demobilization activities associated with joint operations.  Advanced  Echelon  (ADVON)    —A  team  deployed  in  advance  of  the  main  element  to coordinate requirements. Aerial  Port  of  Embarkation  (APOE)  —The  terminal  designated  for  the  sustained  air movement of personnel and materiel. After  Action  Report  (AAR)  —A  summary  of  an  event  providing  observations  that  result  in improvements in military operations.  After action report observations should describe how the mission  was/could  be  improved,  potential  risks  to  mission  degradation,  and  how  to  mitigate those risks.  Air  Expeditionary  Force  (AEF)  —The  Air  Force  methodology  for  organizing,  training, equipping,  and  sustaining  rapidly  responsive  air  and  space  forces  to  meet  defense  strategy requirements using a combination of both permanently assigned and rotational forces.   Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) Capability Library —The catalog of the Air Force’s postured capability  that  at  any  given  time  identifies  the  total  force  that  has  been  made  available  or allocated for scheduling.  It provides a composite of capabilities from which Air Expeditionary Task  Forces  are  organized  to  meet  mission  requirements.    It  contains  the  Air  Force’s  total warfighting capability in terms of UTCs and is located in the UTA module of DCAPES.   Air  Expeditionary  Force  (AEF)  Deployment  Vulnerability  Period  —The  time  frame associated with an AEF Indicator during which Airmen are vulnerable to deploy. Air  Expeditionary  Force  (AEF)  Indicator  (AEFI)  —A  designation  in  MilPDS  that corresponds to an AEF vulnerability period.   Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)  Unit Type Code (UTC)—Reporting Tool  (ART) – A web-based tool by which commanders report the ability of an individual standard UTC to perform its MISCAP.    It  does  not  measure  a  UTC’s  availability  to  deploy,  only  its  ability  to  meet  its MISCAP should it be tasked. Air  Expeditionary  Task  Force  (AETF)  —The  organizational  structure  used  to  present  Air Force forces deployed in support of a contingency operation. Air  Operations  Center  (AOC)  —The  organization  that  provides  operational-level  command and control of air, space, and cyberspace operations.  It is the focal point for planning, directing, and  assessing  air,  space,  and  cyberspace  operations  to  meet  Joint  Force  Air  Component Commander  operational  objectives  and  guidance.  The  AOC  is  the  principal  command  and control tool of the COMAFFOR. 36 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Air Force Forces (AFFOR) —The AFFOR staff is the vehicle through which the Commander, Air  Force  Forces,  fulfills  operational  and  administrative  responsibilities  for  assigned  and attached  forces.    The  AFFOR  staff  consists  of  a  command  section,  a  personal  staff,  functional directorates, and any required liaisons.  Public Affairs serves on the AFFOR personal staff. Air  Reserve  Component  (ARC)  —The  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  and  the  Air  National Guard. Air Tasking Cycle —An analytical, systematic cycle used to provide for efficient and effective employment  of  the  joint  air  capabilities/forces  made  available.    It  provides  a  repetitive  process for  the  planning,  coordination,  allocation,  and  tasking  of  joint  air  missions/sorties  within  the guidance  of  the  joint  force  commander.    Much  of  the  day-today  tasking  cycle  is  conducted through  an  interrelated  series  of  information  exchanges  and  active  involvement  in  plan development,  target  development,  air  execution,  and  assessment,  which  provide  a  means  of requesting and scheduling joint air missions. Airman  —As  used  in  this  instruction,  the  term  “Airman”  refers  to  uniformed  members  of  the U.S. Air Force (officer or enlisted, regardless of rank, component, or specialty). Allocation —The sharing of limited resources among competing needs.  Allocation differs from apportionment  in  that  allocation  is  sharing  for  actual  use  (employment)  rather  than  sharing  for planning purposes.  It is a more detailed effort than the broad apportionment distribution.   American  Forces  Network  (AFN)  —The  Defense  Media  Activity’s  American  Forces  Radio and  Television  Service  (AFRTS)  component  delivers,  via  the  American  Forces  Network,  U.S. radio  and to  military servicemembers,  DOD  civilians  and  contract  employees,  and  their  families  overseas,  on  board Navy and Coast Guard ships, and to other authorized users.   information,  and  entertainment  programming television  news, Apportionment —In the broad sense, the general sharing of limited resources among competing needs for planning purposes.  The joint force commander apportions the air and space force, for instance, to support the various objectives of the joint force. Area of Responsibility (AOR) —The geographical area associated with a combatant command in which a geographic combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations.   Assigned  Forces  —Forces  under  the  component  command  or  operational  control  of  a commander. Associate  UTC —Unit manpower that provides a capability not captured in a standard UTC is postured into an associate UTC.  Associate UTCs do not have a MISCAP, MFE, or LOGDET, are  not  available  for  use  in  TPFDDs,  and  are  not  visible  or  reported  on  in  ART.    They  are placeholders for deployable positions that do not fit into an existing standard deployable UTC; for PA,  apprentice (3-level) and lieutenant  authorizations are  associate UTCs.   While associate UTCs  themselves  are  not  deployable,  Airmen  filling  these  authorizations  are  deployable  for other requirements.  Major command FAMs should be aware of those Airmen/positions linked to associate UTCs. Campaign  Plan  —A joint OPLAN for a series of related major operations aimed at achieving strategic or operational objectives within a given time and space. Civil  Affairs  —Actions  that  enhance  awareness  of  and  manage  the  interaction  with  the  civil component of the operational environment; identify and mitigate underlying causes of instability AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 37 within  civil  society;  or  involve  the  application  of  functional  specialty  skills  normally  the responsibility of civil government. Category  Level  (C—Level)  –  A  five-point  scale  showing  the  degree  to  which  a  unit  meets standards within four measured areas in SORTS. Coding —The act of assigning availability codes to postured UTCs. Combat  —Forces  expected  to  fire  weapons,  conduct  reconnaissance,  or  engage  in  other activities directly related to combat operations.   Combat Camera (COMCAM) —The acquisition and utilization of still and motion imagery in support  of  operational  and  planning  requirements  across  the  range  of  military  operations  and during  joint  exercises.    Uniquely  organized,  trained,  and  equipped,  Combat  Camera  units  have the technological capability to  acquire, process,  and rapidly transmit classified and unclassified still and motion imagery during fast-moving operations at forward operating elements.    Combat  Service  Support  (CSS)  —Forces  whose  primary  mission  is  to  provide  essential capabilities,  functions,  activities,  and  tasks  necessary  to  sustain  all  elements  of  combat  and combat support forces at all levels of war.   Combat  Support  —Forces  whose  primary  mission  is  to  provide  combat  support  to  combat forces and is a part or prepared to become a part of a theater, command, or task force formed for combat operations.  The foundational and crosscutting capability to field, base, protect, support, and sustain forces across the range of military operations.  Combatant  Command  (CCMD)  —A  unified  or  specified  command  with  a  broad  continuing mission under a single commander  established and so designated by the  President, through the Secretary of Defense and with the advice and assistance of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) —The single Air Force commander of an Air Force  service  component  assigned  or  attached  to  a  joint  force  commander  at  the  unified combatant command, subunified combatant command, or Joint Task Force level. Commander’s  Communication  Synchronization  —The  DOD’s  primary  approach to implement  U.S.  Government  strategic  communication  guidance  as  it  applies  to  military operations.    It  is  the  joint  force  commander’s  approach  for  integrating  all  information-related capabilities,  in  concert  with  other  lines  of  operation  and  lines  of  effort,  and  synchronizing themes, messages, images, and actions to support overall objectives.  Commander’s  Critical  Information  Requirements  (CCIR)  —An  information  requirement identified  by  the  commander  as  being  critical  to  facilitating  timely  decision  making.    The  two key elements are friendly force information requirements and priority intelligence requirements. Commander’s  Estimate  —A developed  course of action designed to  provide the Secretary of Defense with military options to meet a potential contingency.  Commander’s Intent —A clear and concise expression of the purpose of the operation and the desired military end state that supports mission command, provides focus to the staff, and helps subordinate and supporting commanders act to achieve the commander’s desired results without further orders, even when the operation does not unfold as planned. 38 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Component  —One  of  the  subordinate  organizations  that  constitute  a  joint  force.    Normally  a joint force is organized with a combination of service and functional components. Component  Headquarters  —The  headquarters  of  an  organization  that  is  the  respective service’s  component  to  a  combatant  command.      Major  commands  are  often  the  Air  Force components  for  combatant  command-level  joint  forces;  U.S.  Air  Forces  in  Europe-Air  Forces Africa is the Air Force component to U.S. European Command and to U.S. Africa Command, for example.    A  Named  or  Numbered  Air  Force  may  also  be  the  Air  Force  component  to  a combatant command, such as U.S. Air Forces Central Command (AFCENT) being the Air Force component to  U.S.  Central  Command, and 14th  Air Force (Air Forces Strategic) being the Air Force component to U.S. Strategic Command.   Concept  of  Operations  (CONOPS)  —A  verbal  or  graphic  statement,  in  broad  outline,  that clearly and concisely expresses what the joint force commander intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available resources.  Concept  Plan  (CONPLAN)  —An  OPLAN  in  an  abbreviated  format  that  will  require considerable expansion or alteration to convert it into a complete OPLAN or OPORD.   Contingency  —A  situation  requiring  military  operations  in  response  to  natural  disasters, terrorists, subversives, or as otherwise directed by appropriate authority to protect U.S. interests.  Contingency  Plan  —A  plan  for  major  contingencies  that  can  reasonably  be  anticipated  in  the principal geographic subareas of the combatant command. Course of Action (COA) —Any sequence of activities that an individual or unit may follow; a scheme  developed  to  accomplish  a  mission;  or  a  product  of  the  COA  development  step  of  the joint operation planning process. Crisis  Action  Planning  —The Adaptive Planning and Execution system process involving the time-sensitive  development  of  joint  OPLANs  and  OPORDs  for  the  deployment,  employment, and sustainment of assigned and allocated forces and resources in response to an imminent crisis. Current  Operations  Plans  —Plans  that  addresses  the  immediate  or  very  near-term  planning issues associated with ongoing operations.  This occurs in the joint operations center or J-3.   Defense Media Activity (DMA) —A field activity of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for  Public  Affairs,  DMA  provides  news  and  information  to  U.S.  forces  and  external  audiences worldwide  through  motion  and  still  imagery,  print,  radio,  television,  Web,  mobile,  and  other communication technologies.  DMA’s operating components include DOD News, the American Forces  Network,  the  Defense  Imagery  Management  Operations  Center,  the  Stars  and  Stripes newspaper, and the Joint Hometown News Service, among others.  Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS)—A capabilities-based, adaptive, near real-time readiness reporting system.  DRRS represents a shift of emphasis from readiness to capabilities in  assessing  the  fitness  of  individual  units  and  combined  forces  according  to  mission  essential tasks.    This  provides  the  required  visibility  of  Air  Force  resources  that  possess  the  necessary skills  and  capabilities  to  support  the  AEF  as  specified  in  defense  and  contingency  planning guidance,  theater  security  cooperation  guidance,  the  Unified  Command  Plan,  and  National Military Strategy.    AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 39 Deliberate  and  Crisis  Action  Planning  and  Execution  Segment  (DCAPES)  —The  Air Force’s single system  to  present,  plan, source, mobilize, deploy, account  for, sustain,  redeploy, and reconstitute combatant commander requirements.  As the service’s standard automated data processing  subsystem  of  JOPES,  DCAPES  is  used  by  operations,  logistics,  manpower  and personnel  planners  at  all  command  levels  to  develop  and  maintain  force  packages  and  task requirements for OPLAN TPFDDs.   Deliberate  Planning  —The  Adaptive  Planning  and  Execution  system  process  involving  the development of joint OPLANs for contingencies identified in joint strategic planning documents; a planning process for the deployment and employment of apportioned forces and resources that occurs in response to a hypothetical situation.  Demand  Force  Team  (DFT)  —A  force  presentation  construct  comprised  of  UTCs  with  a unique set of highly specific and/or low-density capabilities.  Public Affairs UTCs are part of the Demand Force Team construct. Deploy—to-Dwell – Time in theater to support combatant commander requirements versus total time  back  from  deployment;  a  1:2  deploy-to-dwell  signifies  a  six-month  deployment  window followed by 12 months at home. Deployment —The rotation of forces and materiel to or within an operational area. Deployment  Availability  (DAV)  Code  —Personnel  codes  that  identify  an  Airman’s  current medical, legal, and administrative status for deployment eligibility. Deployment  Order  (DEPORD)  —A planning directive from the Secretary of Defense, issued by  the  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  that  authorizes  and  directs  the  transfer  of  forces between combatant commands by reassignment or attachment. Deployment  Planning  —Operational  planning  directed  toward  the  movement  of  forces  and sustainment resources from their original locations to a specific operational area for conducting the joint operations contemplated in a given plan. DOD Principles for News Media Coverage of DOD Operations —Principles governing DOD support  to  open  and  independent  reporting  of  U.S.  military  operations,  prescribed  in  DODD 5122.05.   DOD  Principles  of  Information  —Principles  that  support  the  DOD  policy  to  make  available timely and accurate information so that the public, Congress, and the news media may assess and understand the facts about national security and defense strategy, prescribed in DODD 5122.05. Emergency  and  Special  Program  (ESP)  Code  —A special  accounting and  reporting  code to collect costs incurred during an emergency or in support of a special program.   Execute Order (EXORD) —An order issued by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, at the direction of the Secretary of Defense, to implement a decision by the President to initiate military operations; an order to initiate military operations as directed. Exercise  —A  military  maneuver  or  simulated  wartime  operation  involving  planning, preparation, and execution that is carried out for the purpose of training and evaluation. Flexible Deterrent Options (FDOs) —A planning construct intended to facilitate early decision making by developing a wide range of interrelated responses that begin with deterrent-oriented actions carefully tailored to produce a desired effect.  40 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Fragmentary Order (FRAGO) —An abbreviated form of an OPORD issued as needed after an OPORD to change or modify that order or to execute a branch or sequel to that order. Functional  Area  Manager  (FAM)  —The  individual  responsible  for  the  management  and oversight  of  all  Airmen  and  equipment  within  a  specific  functional  area  to  support  operational planning and execution.  Future Operations Plans —Plans that address the immediate or very near-term planning issues associated  with  ongoing  operations,  including  branches  to  current  operations.    The  time  frame for  future  operations  planning  varies  according  to  the  factors  listed  for  Future  Plans,  but  the period typically is more near-term than the future plans time frame.  Future operations planning normally occurs in the operations directorate of a joint staff (J-3).   Future  Plans  —Plans  that  address  the  next  phase  of  operations  or  sequels  to  the  current operation.  The time frame of focus for this effort varies according to the level of command, type of  operation,  joint  force  commander  desires,  and  other  factors.    Future  planning  occurs  in  the plans directorate of a joint staff (J-5). Global Force Management (GFM) —A process that enables global sourcing, regardless of the command or service to which the force is assigned, of combatant command force requirements.  It provides a decision framework for making assignment and allocation recommendations to the Secretary  of  Defense  and  apportionment  recommendations  to  the  Chairman,  Joint  Chiefs  of Staff.    Its  force  allocation  decision  matrix  provides  the  framework  for  prioritizing  sourcing combatant  commander  force  requirements  with  finite  forces  and  allows  for  the  Secretary  of Defense to make proactive risk-informed force management allocation decisions. Global  Force  Management  Allocation  Plan  (GFMAP)  —The  document,  approved  by  the Secretary of Defense, that allocates specific rotational forces to combatant commanders. Global  Information  Environment  (GIE)  —The  aggregate  of  information  infrastructures  and processes, with no discrete boundaries, that have evolved to link individuals, groups, businesses, and  nations  into  a  comprehensive  network  that  allows  for  the  increasingly  rapid  flow  of information  to  all  parties  with  access  to  the  network.    The  global  information  environment transcends industry, the media, and the military. Guidance  for  Employment  of  the  Force  (GEF)  —A  single  strategic  directive  that  includes guidance  for  developing  campaign  plans  to  achieve  theater  and  functional  strategic  end  states; deliberate  planning;  global  defense  posture  alignment;  global  force  management;  and  nuclear weapons planning.  Headquarters Air Force (HAF) —The senior headquarters of the Air Force, consisting of two major  entities:    the  Secretariat,  including  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  Secretary’s principal staff, and the Air Staff, led by the Air Force Chief of Staff. Implied  Task  —A  task  derived  during  mission  analysis  that  an  organization  must  perform  or prepare to perform to accomplish a specified task or the mission, but which is not stated in the higher headquarters order. Individual  Augmentee  (IA)  —An  unfunded  temporary  manpower  requirement  (or  member filling an unfunded temporary manpower position) identified on a joint manning document by a supported  combatant  commander  to  augment  Joint  Task  Force  headquarters  operations  during contingencies. AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 41 Individual  Mobilization  Augmentee  (IMA)  —An  individual  reservist  who  receives  training and is pre-assigned to an active component organization that must be filled on, or shortly after, mobilization.    Individual  Mobilization  Augmentees  train  on  a  part-time  basis  with  these organizations to prepare for mobilization.   Information  Operations  (IO)  —The  integrated  employment,  during  military  operations,  of information-related  capabilities  in  concert  with  other  lines  of  operation  to  influence,  disrupt, corrupt,  or  usurp  the  decision-making  of  adversaries  and  potential  adversaries  while  protecting our own. Information—Related  Capability  (IRC)    –  A  tool,  technique,  or  activity  employed  within  a dimension  of  the  information  environment  that  can  be  used  to  create  effects  and  operationally desirable conditions.  Public Affairs is an information-related capability. Information  Security  (INFOSEC)  —The  operational  advantage  derived  from  the  ability  to collect,  process,  and  disseminate  an  uninterrupted  flow  of  information  while  exploiting  or denying an adversary’s ability to do the same. Institutional  Force  —Institutional  forces  are  from  organizations  not  designated  as  combat, combat support, or combat service support.   Institutional force primary functions are to  recruit, organize, train, and equip Airmen for assignment to a combat, combat support, or combat service support unit.    Instruments of National Power —All of the means available to the government in its pursuit of national objectives.  They are expressed as diplomatic, economic, informational, and military. Interagency  Coordination  —Within  the  context  of  DOD  involvement,  the  coordination  that occurs between DOD elements and engaged U.S. Government agencies and departments for the purpose of achieving an objective. Joint Force —A general term applied to a force composed of significant elements, assigned or attached, of two or more military departments operating under a single joint force commander. Joint  Force  Commander  (JFC)  —A  general  term  applied  to  a  combatant  commander, subunified  commander,  or  joint  task  force  commander  authorized  to  exercise  combatant command (command authority) or operational control over a joint force.  Joint  Operation  Planning  and  Execution  System  (JOPES)  —A  system  of  joint  policies, procedures, and reporting structures, supported by communications and computer systems, that is used by the joint planning and execution community to monitor, plan, and execute mobilization, deployment,  employment,  sustainment,  redeployment,  and  demobilization  activities  associated with joint operations.  Joint  Operation  Planning  Process  (JOPP)  —An orderly, analytical process that consists of a logical  set  of  steps  to  analyze  a  mission,  select  the  best  COA,  and  produce  a  joint  OPLAN  or OPORD. Joint  Operations  Area  (JOA)  —An  area  of  land,  sea,  and  airspace,  defined  by  a  geographic combatant  commander  or  subordinate  unified  commander,  in  which  a  joint  force  commander (normally  a  joint  task  force  commander)  conducts  military  operations  to  accomplish  a  specific mission. 42 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Joint  Planning  and  Execution  Community  —Those  headquarters,  commands,  and  agencies involved training,  preparation,  mobilization,  deployment,  employment,  support, sustainment,  redeployment,  and  demobilization  of  military  forces  assigned  or  committed  to  a joint operation. the in Joint  Strategic  Capabilities  Plan  (JSCP)  —A  plan  that  provides  guidance  to  the  combatant commanders  and  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  to  accomplish  tasks  and  missions  based  on  current military capabilities. Joint Task Force (JTF) —A joint force that is constituted and so designated by the Secretary of Defense,  a  combatant  commander,  a  subunified  commander,  or  an  existing  joint  force commander.    Usually  JTFs  are  established  for  specific  missions  and  for  limited  time  periods.  They can exist to perform a functional mission or on a geographic basis. Law  of  War  —That  part  of  international  law  that  regulates  the  conduct  of  armed  hostilities.  Also called the law of armed conflict. Line  Remarks  —Line  remarks  allow  the  Air  Force  component  headquarters  to  further  define capability  requests.    Air  Force  standard  line  remarks  are  used  in  conjunction  with  the  UTC  to further identify unique requirements.   Logistics Detail (LOGET) —The equipment portion of a UTC, containing a description of each piece of equipment, to include the National Stock Number, movement characteristics, size, and weight of each individual item.  Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) System —A data system supporting contingency  and  general  war  planning  with  predefined  and  standardized  personnel  and equipment  force  packages.    MEFPAK,  which  resides  in  DCAPES,  comprises  two  subsystems: the Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR) and the Logistics Force Packaging System (LOGFOR).  A UTC becomes usable when it appears in the MEFPAK.  The MEFPAK combines the MFE and LOGDET of a UTC in an easy to use package.  Manpower  Force  Element  (MFE)  —Manpower requirements for the UTC.  It is the basis for reporting ART on Airmen as well as communicating deployment tasking manning requirements through DCAPES.  It also serves as the foundation for individual requirements documentation by operation planners. Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR) —A MEFPAK subsystem that provides the title of the unit or force element and its unique UTC; the MISCAP containing the definition of a UTC’s  capability;  and  the  manpower  detail  by  function,  grade,  and  Air  Force  specialty  code required to meet the defined capability.  Master  Scenario  Events  List  (MSEL)  —A  chronological  timeline  of  expected  actions  and scripted events that controllers inject into exercises to generate or prompt an action.  It  ensures that necessary events happen so that all exercise objectives are met.  Military  Information  Support  Operations  (MISO)  —Planned  operations  to  convey  selected information  and  indicators  to  foreign  audiences  to  influence  their  emotions,  motives,  objective reasoning,  and  ultimately  the  behavior  of  foreign  governments,  organizations,  groups,  and individuals.    The  purpose  of  MISO  is  to  induce  or  reinforce  foreign  attitudes  and  behavior favorable to the originator’s objectives. AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 43 Mission Analysis —A process whereby the commander’s staff analyzes the set of tasks, together with  their  purpose,  that  clearly  indicates  the  action  to  be  taken  and  the  reason  for  doing  so.  Mission  analysis is  used to  study the assigned tasks  and to  identify all other tasks necessary to accomplish the mission.  Its primary products are staff estimates, the mission statement, a refined operational  approach,  the  commander’s  intent  statement,  updated  planning  guidance,  and commander’s critical information requirements.  Mission  Capability  Statement  (MISCAP)  —A  short  paragraph  describing  the  mission capabilities  the  UTC  is  designed  to  perform.    The  statement  usually  contains  a  brief  capability statement, the type of base the UTC can operate  from,  the list  of functional  activities the UTC performs, and clearly defined substitution rules.  Mission  Essential  Task  (MET)  —A  task  based  on  mission  analysis  and  approved  by  the commander that is absolutely necessary, indispensable, or critical to the success of a mission. Mission Essential Task List (METL) —A list of mission essential tasks required to accomplish an assigned or anticipated mission that includes associated tasks, conditions, and standards, and requires the identification of command-linked and supporting tasks.  Mission essential tasks are the basis for capabilities-based readiness reporting in DRRS. National  Capital  Region  —A  geographic  area  encompassing  the  District  of  Columbia  and eleven local jurisdictions in the State of Maryland and the Commonwealth of Virginia. National Defense Strategy —A document that describes how DOD will support the objectives outlined  in  the  National  Security  Strategy.    It  provides  the  foundation  for  building  the legislatively mandated Quadrennial Defense Review, which focuses DOD strategies, capabilities, and forces on operations of today and tomorrow, and also provides a framework for other DOD strategic guidance, including deliberate planning. National Military Strategy —A document issued by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that communicates his advice with regard to the security environment and the necessary military actions to protect vital U.S. interests.  It defines the national military objectives (i.e., ends), how to  accomplish  these  objectives  (i.e.,  ways),  and  addresses  the  military  capabilities  required  to execute  the  strategy  (i.e.,  means).    It  is  derived  from  the  National  Security  Strategy  and  the National Defense Strategy. National Security Strategy —A comprehensive report prepared for Congress by the Executive Branch and approved by the President for developing, applying, and coordinating the instruments of national power to address the major national security concerns of the United States. self-governing,  not-for-profit Nongovernmental  Organization organization dedicated to alleviating human suffering; and/or promoting education, health care, economic development,  environmental protection, human rights,  and conflict  resolution; and/or encouraging the establishment of democratic institutions and civil society. (NGO)  —A  private, Objective  —The clearly defined, decisive, and attainable goal toward which every operation is directed. Operation Order (OPORD) —A directive issued by a commander to subordinate commanders for the purpose of effecting the coordinated execution of an operation. Operation  Plan  (OPLAN)  —A  complete  and  detailed  joint  plan  for  the  conduct  of  military operations  prepared  in  response  to  actual  and  potential  contingencies,  containing  a  full 44 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 description  of  the  concept  of  operations,  all  annexes  applicable  to  the  plan,  and  a  TPFDD.    It identifies the specific forces, functional support, and resources required to execute the plan and provide closure estimates for their flow into the theater. Operations  Security  (OPSEC)  —A  process  of  identifying  critical  information  and  analyzing friendly actions attendant to military operations and other activities to identify those actions that can  be  observed  by  adversary  intelligence  systems;  determine  indicators  that  adversary intelligence  systems  might  obtain  that  could  be  interpreted  or  pieced  together  to  derive  critical information  in  time  to  be  useful  to  adversaries;  and  select  and  execute  countermeasures  that eliminate the risk to friendly actions and operations or reduce it to an acceptable level. Percent Effective (PCTEF) —A subjective assessment of a unit’s ability to execute its currently assigned mission(s), reported in SORTS.  Pilot  Unit  —The  organization  responsible  for  developing  and  maintaining  manpower  and logistics detail for UTCs.  SAF/PAR is the pilot unit for all PA UTCs. Posturing —The act of converting the unit manpower document into UTCs and aligning them to a specific AEF deployment vulnerability period. Propaganda  —Any  form  of  adversary  communication,  especially  of  a  biased  or  misleading nature, designed to influence the opinions, emotions, attitudes, or behavior of any group in order to benefit the sponsor, either directly or indirectly. Public Affairs Airman —An Air Force servicemember with a 3N or 35X AFSC.    Public  Affairs  Guidance  (PAG)  —Constraints  and  restraints  established  by  proper  authority regarding  public  information,  command  information,  and  community  engagement  activities.    It may  also  address  the  method(s),  timing,  location,  and  other  details  governing  the  release  of information to the public. Readily Available (Rotational or Warfighting) Force —The primary pool from which the Air Force fulfills  deployment  requirements, comprised of forces assigned to  an organization with  a unit descriptor code of combat, combat support, or combat service support. Readiness —The ability of military forces to meet the demands of assigned missions.  Reclama  —A  request  to  duly  constituted  authority  to  reconsider  its  decision  or  its  proposed action when a valid shortfall exists or in the event the tasked organization has the capability but fulfilling the tasking would cause a severe adverse impact on the local mission. Redeployment  —The  transfer  or  rotation  of  forces  and  materiel  to  support  another  joint  force commander’s  operational  requirements,  or  to  return  personnel,  equipment,  and  materiel  to  the home and/or demobilization stations for reintegration and/or outprocessing. Reserve  Component  —For  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  the  Air  National  Guard  and  the  Air  Force Reserve. Security Review —The process of reviewing information, imagery, and other products prior to public release to ensure the material will not jeopardize ongoing or future operations. Shortfall  —The  lack  of  forces,  equipment,  personnel,  materiel,  or  capability,  reflected  as  the difference  between  the  resources  identified  as  a  plan  requirement  (or  service  asset)  and  those AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 45 apportioned  to  a  combatant  commander  (or  assigned  to  the  service)  for  planning  that  would adversely affect the command’s ability to accomplish the mission. Sourcing  —The  process  of  identifying  the  specific  UTC  to  fill  a  specific  deployment requirement.   Specified Task —In the context of joint operation planning, a task that is specifically assigned to an organization by its higher headquarters. Standard  UTC  —A  UTC  that  describes  standard,  predefined  manpower  and  equipment  force capabilities. State  Funeral  Plan  —The plan detailing approved DOD support executed upon the demise of any individual authorized a State Funeral.  Individuals include the President of the United States, any former President of the United States, the President-elect of the United States, and any other person specifically designated by the President of the United States.  Upon issuance of the U.S. Northern  Command  State  Funeral  Execution  Order,  the  Air  Force  District  of  Washington activates  the  320th  Air  Expeditionary  Wing  as  Air  Force  component  to  the  Joint  Forces Headquarters-National Capital Region for the conduct of a specific State Funeral scenario. Status  of  Resources  and  Training  System  (SORTS)  —An  automated  data  system  primarily created  to  provide  authoritative  identification,  location,  and  resource  information.    It  is  used throughout a chain of command to measure the daily resource status of operating forces.   Supported  Commander  —The  commander  having  primary  responsibility  for  all  aspects  of  a task  assigned  by  the  Joint  Strategic  Capabilities  Plan  or  other  joint  operational  planning authority.    In  the  context  of  joint  operation  planning,  this  term  refers  to  the  commander  who prepares OPLANs or OPORDs in response to requirements of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Supporting  Commander  —A commander who provides augmentation forces or other support to  a  supported  commander  or  who  develops  a  supporting  plan;  the  commander  who  aids, protects,  complements,  or  sustains  another  commander’s  force  and  who  is  responsible  for providing the assistance required by the supported commander. Third Country National (TCN) Escort —A deployment requirement involving helping oversee  individuals  of  other  nationalities  hired  by  a  government  or  government-sanctioned  contractor who represent neither the contracting government nor the host country or area of operations. Time  Phased  Force  Deployment  Data  (TPFDD)—The  electronic  data  portion  of  a  plan  that contains detailed requirements, capabilities, and movement data that support operational plans or ongoing  rotation  of  forces;  it  contains  live  data  that  changes  frequently.    A  TPFDD  contains critical information to include the time phasing of forces to specific destinations (called routing data).  Through the use of UTCs, this information includes personnel and equipment details.  A TPFDD provides a prioritized list of what UTCs deploy in support of a particular plan, catalogs combatant  commander  requirements, routes forces, and establishes transportation requirements.  TPFDDs reside in JOPES, and the Air Force accesses these TPFDDs using DCAPES.  Total  Force  Awareness  Training  (TFAT)—Annual  training required of all Airmen,  covering topics  such  as  cyber  awareness,  information  protection,  force  protection,  human  relations, suicide  prevention,  and  sexual  assault  prevention  and  response  training.    Annual  Total  Force 46 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Awareness  Training  web-based  modules  are  available  on  the  Air  Force  Advanced  Distributed Learning Service website accessible from the Air Force Portal.  Unified  Command  —A command with a broad continuing mission under a single commander and  composed  of  significant  assigned  components  of  two  or  more  military  departments  that  is established and so designated by the President, through the Secretary of Defense with the advice and assistance of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Unified  Command  Plan  (UCP)  —The  document,  approved  by  the  President,  that  sets  forth basic guidance to all unified combatant commanders; establishes their missions, responsibilities, and  force  structure;  delineates  the  general  geographical  area  of  responsibility  for  geographic combatant  commanders;  and  specifies  functional  responsibilities  for  functional  combatant commanders. Unit  Deployment  Manager  (UDM)  —An  individual  who  manages  all  deployment  readiness and training aspects for all unit Airmen and equipment to ensure they are deployment ready. Unit  Descriptor  Code  (UDC)  —A  Joint  Staff-designated  code  that  distinguishes  every organization  defined  by  a  Personnel  Accounting  Symbol  (PAS)  as  Combat,  Combat  Support, Combat Service Support, or Other (such as organizations whose primary functions are to recruit, organize,  train,  and  equip  Airmen  for  assignment  to  a  Combat,  Combat  Support,  or  Combat Service Support unit).  The UDC applies to the entire unit.  Unit  Indicator  Code  (UIC)  —A six-character alphanumeric code that uniquely identifies each Active, Reserve, and National Guard unit of the armed forces. Unit  Line  Number  (ULN)  —A  seven-character  alphanumeric  code  that  describes  a  line (requirement) in a TPFDD.  An Airman is tasked to deploy against a specific ULN. Unit  Type  Code  (UTC)  —A  five-character  code  that  uniquely  identifies  a  capability  or  “type unit.”   The MISCAP associated with the UTC defines the basic mission the UTC is capable of accomplishing.  Universal  Joint  Task  List  (UJTL)  —A  menu  of  capabilities  that  may  be  selected  by  a  joint force  commander  to  accomplish  the  assigned  mission.    The  UJTL  is  the  foundation  for capabilities-based planning across the range of military operations. U.S. Air Force War and Mobilization Plan (WMP) —The Air Force’s supporting document to the Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan.  The five-volume WMP provides current Air Force policies, planning  factors,  and  Chairman-apportioned  forces  for  conducting  and  supporting  operations.  The  WMP  establishes  requirements  for  developing  mobilization  and  planning  programs  to support and sustain contingency operations of the programmed forces.  Its PA annex delineates concepts,  broad  policies,  and  planning  guidance  for  PA  support  across  the  spectrum  of operations.    AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 47 Attachment 2 SAMPLE FORMAT FOR A PUBLIC AFFAIRS ANNEX F ANNEX F TO USEUCOM OPLAN 4999-12 PUBLIC AFFAIRS (PA) References:  List documents essential to this annex. 1.  Situation. a.  General.  This annex assigns responsibilities and provides guidance for military PA actions (public information, command information, and community engagement).  (See Annex C for operational details.) b.  Enemy.  Identify expected actions of enemy forces and forces hostile to US interests. c.  Friendly.  Identify friendly PA capabilities available for the operation.  d.  Assumptions.  List assumptions for PA. 2.  Mission.  State clearly and concisely the essential PA tasks to be accomplished as they relate to the overall operation. 3.  Execution. a.  Concept of Operations.  Outline PA support for the operation. b.  Tasks.  List the tasks to be completed during the above listed phases. (1)  Identify requirements for release authority and guidance on casualty and mortuary affairs, postal affairs, and prisoner of war/missing in action and enemy prisoner of war matters. (2)  Discuss establishing a Media Operations Center (MOC). (3)  Coordinate this annex with logistic, communications, information operations, and other planners to ensure required support is detailed. (4)  List Service, component command, and other supporting commands support requirements. c.  Coordinating Instructions.  Identify procedures for the following areas: (1)  Handling or forwarding to the supported command; queries, responses, and proposed news releases for clearance. (2)  Public Affairs support to Commander’s Communication Synchronization. (3)  Interviews and news conferences with returned US personnel and EPWs or detained personnel. (4)  PA coordination with other staff elements involved in release of information outside the command. d.    Media Ground Rules (1)  Release of Cleared Information.  Establish means for release of information to be cleared and made available to the press. (2)  Categories of Releasable Information.  Provide precise guidance for release of specific categories of information to the media. (3)  Categories of Information Not Releasable.  Provide guidance on specific categories of information not releasable to the media. 4.  Administration and Logistics. a.  Identify administration and logistics requirements for PA support.  Identify OPSEC procedures for PA personnel, include security review procedures.  Identify procedures for providing PA, audiovisual, and visual information coverage of the operation, including 48 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 Combat Camera requirements. Identify command information requirements for subordinate and component commands. b.  Identify detailed personnel and equipment support requirements. Address the following: (1)  Secure voice and data connectivity between the MOC and on-scene commander (OSC), supported commander, and the Department of State representative. (2)  Inter-theater and intra-theater transportation for escorted media. (3)  Secure and non-secure Internet between MOC and other PA outlets. (4)  Digital imagery receiver equipment. (5)  Equipment for review and release of battle damage assessment-type video footage. c.  MOC/Sub-MOC Support. (1)  Personnel.  Identify required personnel. (2)  Equipment.  Identify additional standard equipment required to allow MOC or sub-MOC operation in the operational area. Include tentage and individual field equipment on the same basis of issue as the accompanied unit. (3)  Services. Include basic food and shelter, water, office space and materials, clothing, transportation, etc., including portable copying machines, communications, Internet access, and facsimile machines. d.  Media/Media Pool Support.  Identify details on supporting the media to include: facilities, messing, billeting, force protection, immunizations, emergency medical treatment, transportation and communications, access to unclassified operational information, media pools, and other support.  (1)  Outline plans for support of the media pool. (a) Daily, comprehensive, unclassified operational briefings. (b) Access to areas of ongoing combat and exercise operations.  (c) Access to key command and staff personnel. (d) Designated officer from the supported command assigned to coordinate media pool requirements. (e) Itinerary planning to enable media pool to disperse throughout the combat area in order to provide coverage of operations and to regroup periodically to share information and file sorties. (2)  Required Logistics Support.  Outline supported commander responsibilities for planning logistics support for pool and escort personnel. Support should address: (a) Existing airlift to/from CONUS to operational area. (b) Theater ground, sea, and air transportation available to the media. (c) Messing and billeting, and reimbursement requirements. (d) Issuance of any equipment considered appropriate to the situation (e.g., helmets, canteens, protective vest, and chemical protective gear). (e) Access to communications facilities to file stories on an expedited basis. (f) Medical support. 5.  Command and Control.  Identify command relationships for PA including Information Operations Cell participation (see Information Operations Annex).  AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 49 //Signed// Commander  Appendices {none included, develop as appropriate} 1 — Personnel Requirements for MOCs and Sub-MOCs (see also Annex A) 2 — Equipment and Support Requirements for MOCs and Sub-MOCs (see also Annex D) 3 — General Ground Rules for Media 4 — DOD National Media Pool 5 — American Forces Radio & Television Service Support 6 — Stars and Stripes Support 7 — Redeployment/Reconstitution Preparation 8 --- Visual Information   50 AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 SAMPLE FORMAT FOR A COMBAT CAMERA APPENDIX 10 TO ANNEX C Attachment 3 APPENDIX 10 TO ANNEX C TO USEUCOM OPLAN 4999-12 COMBAT CAMERA (COMCAM) References:  List documents essential to this appendix. 1.  Situation.  Describe the general situation expected to exist and the contingency area to be supported.  Include the appropriate level of detail that will aid Combat Camera forces to understand the context of their assigned tasks. a.  Enemy.  See Annex B, Intelligence Estimate. b.  Friendly.  Describe available Combat Camera capability. c.  Assumptions.  State any assumptions concerning friendly, enemy, or third-party capabilities, which may affect, negate, or compromise effective accomplishment of COMCAM mission planning, preparations, or execution. 2.  Mission.  Identify the task and purpose for Combat Camera operations. 3.  Execution. a.  Concept of Operations.  State the deployment and employment concept for COMCAM forces based on the nature of the threat within the AOR.  Identify the level of support to be provided (e.g., 24-hour operations, special operating procedures, and forward basing).  State in-theater daily imagery requirements and distribution priorities. b.  Tasks.  List the tasks assigned to each Combat Camera element of the supported and supporting commands in separate numbered subparagraphs.  Each task should be a concise statement of the mission to be performed for the operation upon execution.  The task assignment should encompass all key actions that subordinate and supporting elements perform to fulfill the concept of operations. (1)  Joint Headquarters Combat Camera Support.  Specify which Service component/agency is responsible for providing the Combat Camera Team Officer-in-Charge.  Identify mission capabilities required in-theater and the imagery requirements to fully support the headquarters staff and other major command staffs.  Major capabilities are listed below: (a) Video Acquisition Services. (b) Video Editing and Duplication. (c) Video Distribution and Satellite Transmission (To include identifying and requesting dedicated bandwidth). (d) Still Imagery Acquisition, Processing, and Duplication. (e)  Still Imagery Distribution and Transmission. (f) Other special considerations such as classification of imagery, night vision capability, and any theater level support not directly included within the categories listed. (2)  Joint Combat Camera Teams.  Identify the capabilities to be provided by each service component and/or unique qualifications required (i.e., diver team, aircrew personnel, airborne).  Specific qualifications are listed in parenthesis. (a) Army (airborne). (b) Navy (divers and aircrew personnel).  (c) Marine Corps. (d) Air Force (air and ground personnel). AFI35-111  26 APRIL 2016 51 c.  Coordinating Instructions.  List unique Combat Camera instructions applicable to commands within the AOR, other USG agencies, and allied or coalition agencies and forces. 4.  Administration and Logistics. a.  Logistics.  Identify Combat Camera sustainment requirements.  Identify the duration Combat Camera forces will be required to deploy. b.  Administration.  Provide guidance for Combat Camera situation reports, interim actions, and after-action report requirements.  Identify OPSEC procedures as appropriate. 5.  Command and Control.  Refer to Annex J.  Identify the specific command and control relationships that exist, and how deploying Combat Camera forces will integrate into the existing structure. Tabs {No specific format provided for Tabs A, B, C, and D} A--Combat Camera (COMCAM) Customer Support Requirements B--Organization of Combat Camera Forces C--Combat Camera Product Flow D--Armament Delivery Recording   