 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1062 15 JANUARY 2015 Civil Engineering ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, POWER PLANTS AND GENERATORS   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the  e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A4CX  Supersedes:   AFI32-1062, 1 June 2005 and AFI32-1063, 10 June 2005 Certified by: AF/A4CX  (Col Valerie L. Hasberry) Pages: 25   This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  32-10,  Installations  and Facilities. It provides acquisition and operation and maintenance (O&M) requirements for power systems,  individual  real  property  installed  equipment  (RPIE),  and  Equipment  Authorized Inventory  Data  (EAID)  generators.    This  instruction  applies  to  all  personnel  who  operate  and maintain RPIE and EAID electrical generators, to include Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units  and  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG).  It  emphasizes  safe,  cost-effective,  reliable,  and environmentally-compliant methods and practices. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of this  publication  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  approval.    The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number.    See  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,  for  a description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional chain  of  command.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  Use of the name or mark of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.   2  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  is  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    This  revision  of AFI 32-1062  also  replaces  AFI  32-1063,  Electrical  Power  Systems.    AF  Form  487,  Generator Operating  Log  (Inspection  and  Testing),  has  been  updated  and  must  be  used  for  all  generators installed  after  the  publication  date  of  this  AFI.    Generator  authorization,  classification,  and validation  have  been  consolidated  in  this  revision.    In  accordance  with  the  Director  of  Civil Engineers’  memorandum  for  “Authorization  and  Size  Validation  of  Emergency  and  Standby Generators,”  dated  1  April  2013,  existing  facilities  with  standby  generators  (RPIE  or  EAID) must  be  vetted  through  the  generator  authorization  and  classification  process.    New  and replacement  generators  require  Air  Force  Civil  Engineer  Center  (AFCEC)  authorization, classification,  and  design  approval  (paragraph  1.1).  Authorization  and  classification  must  be obtained  in  advance  of  design  approval  (paragraph  6.1).    Revalidation  of  facilities  authorized standby  generators  must  be  conducted  every  five  years  (paragraphs  1.4.6,  9.1).  A  new authorization request  is  required for  facilities with  relevant  changes to  mission requirements or modifications to the electrical system (paragraph 9.1).  Generator authorizations will be assigned by individual facility. Facilities with multiple generators must have a single authorization for all standby generators attached to the facility (paragraph 2.2).  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. RESPONSIBILITIES.   ...........................................................................................  AUTHORIZATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF GENERATORS.   .................  AUTHORIZATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF FACILITIES.   ......................  ACCOUNTING FOR GENERATORS.   ................................................................  DOCUMENTATION AND RECORDS.   ..............................................................  GENERATOR DESIGN AND INSTALLATION, AND EPA REQUIREMENTS.   .................................................................................................................................  RPIE GENERATOR AND ATS TESTING AND INSPECTIONS.   .....................  REPORTING RPIE GENERATORS.   ...................................................................  FIVE-YEAR REVALIDATION OF GENERATOR AUTHORIZATIONS.   .......  PRIME GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS.   .........................................................  POWER CONDITIONING AND CONTINUATION INTERFACING EQUIPMENT (PCCIE).   ........................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION    Attachment 2—NEW AND REPLACEMENT GENERATOR AUTHORIZATION AND DESIGN TEMPLATES   Attachment 3—EXISTING GENERATOR AUTHORIZATION AND DESIGN SIZING TEMPLATE      3 7 8 10 10 10 13 13 13 14 14 15 20 24 AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   3  1.  RESPONSIBILITIES. 1.1.  Air  Force  Director  of  Civil  Engineers  (AF/A4C).  Establishes  policies  for  electrical systems, power plants and generators. 1.2.  Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC).  (T-1) 1.2.1.  Director, AFCEC Operations (AFCEC/CO), or designee, is the approval authority for  generator  authorization,  design,  and  classification  to  include  Critical  Operations Power Systems (COPS). 1.2.2.  AFCEC/CO  is  the  approval  authority  for  five-year  revalidation  of  generator authorizations  (see  paragraph  9.1)  and  the  use  of  generators  for  prime  power  or cogeneration. 1.2.3.  Chief,  AFCEC  Mechanical/Electrical  Branch  (AFCEC/COM),  maintains  master list of RPIE generators available for relocation, as compiled from the Major Commands (MAJCOMs) (see paragraph 1.2.1.2). 1.2.4.  Director, AFCEC Environmental (AFCEC/CZ), provides guidance regarding local emission restrictions, spill containment, and fuel tank inspection requirements. 1.2.5.  Director,  AFCEC  Energy  (AFCEC/CN),  reviews  and  coordinates  on  use  of generators for co-generation and Prime Power. 1.2.6.  Director,  AFCEC  Facility  Engineering  (AFCEC/CF),  submits  authorization  and design  approval  requests  to  AFCEC/CO  when  projects  are  programmed  without generator authorization. 1.3.  MAJCOM. 1.3.1.  MAJCOM Senior Engineer. 1.3.1.1.  MAJCOM  Senior  Engineer  may  delegate  the  following  tasks  (may  not  be delegated below the MAJCOM). 1.3.1.2.  Reviews  and  coordinates  on  generator  authorization  and  design  requests  or recommend  alternative  for  approval  and  submit  requests  to  AFCEC/CO,  or disapprove with no further action. 1.3.1.3.  Reviews annual RPIE generator inventory reports and provide AFCEC/COM Civil  Engineer  Maintenance,  Inspection,  and  Repair  Team  (CEMIRT)  a  list  of generators  that  are  oversized,  available  for  relocation,  and  cannot  be  redistributed within their command (see paragraph 8.4). 1.3.1.4.  Coordinates  the  five-year  revalidation  of  generator  authorizations  with AFCEC/CO  and  forward  validation  reports  to  AFCEC/COSM  by  1  October  of  the reporting year (see paragraph 9). 1.3.1.5.  Coordinates prime and cogeneration requests for utility tariff control through AFCEC/CN (information copy to AFCEC/COSM). 1.3.1.6.  Ensure  Base  Civil  Engineers  (BCEs)  develops  written  prioritized  refueling plans  and  requirements  to  support  EAID  and  RPIE  generator  operation  during extended power outages of not less than seven days.   4  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 1.3.2.  Vice Commanders (MAJCOM/CVs).  Approves deviations for Semiannual Full-System Testing, per paragraph 7.2. 1.4.  Installation  Commander  (or  Equivalent).  Approves  deviations  from  manufacturer service intervals. (T-1) 1.5.  BCE. 1.5.1.  Real  Property  Electrical  Power  Systems.  The  BCE  provides,  operates,  and maintains  all  real  property  electrical  power  systems  and  equipment,  including  EAID equipment  assigned to  the BCE and RPIE items, with  the exception of units supporting missile  systems  or  special-use  tenant  generators  lacking  a  signed  memorandum  of agreement  (MOA).    The  BCE  is  responsible  for  operating  and  maintaining  other  real property and RPIE electrical systems (as applicable to each installation), including: (T-1) 1.5.1.1.  Controls,  sensors,  and  alarm  circuits  needed  for  operation  of  real  property facilities, such as tank liquid level sensors and alarms. 1.5.1.2.  Fire alarm systems. 1.5.1.3.  Mass notification systems. 1.5.1.4.  Facility-integrated photovoltaic panels, arrays, and components. 1.5.1.5.  Electric and hybrid vehicle charging stations. 1.5.1.6.  Joint-Services Interior Intrusion Detection Systems (J-SIIDS). 1.5.1.7.  Electrical  heating  and  air-conditioning  systems  using  equipment  similar  to RPIE. 1.5.1.8.  Electrical  systems  temporarily  deployed  during  exercises  or  contingency  or wartime operations, or systems permanently assigned to an installation. 1.5.1.9.  Systems  for  utility  plant  management  and  distribution,  such  as  energy management  and  control  systems,  which  include  supervisory  control  and  data acquisition  systems  and  utility  monitoring  and  control  systems.    The  BCE  obtains advance  written  approval  from  AFCEC/COSM  to  install  any  generator  security device, such as those used to mitigate electrical system vulnerability. 1.5.2.  Special-Use/Tenant  Facility  Systems.  (T-1)  The  BCE  maintains  and  tests electrical  power systems at  special-use or tenant  facilities in  accordance  with  Air Force standards  for  RPIE  and  equipment  typically  assigned  to  the  CE  squadron.    Using organizations  are  responsible  for  operator-level  maintenance  of  equipment  supplying power  exclusively  to  these  facilities.    Real  property  accountability  for  equipment supplying  power  to  a  special-use  facility  or  tenant  organization  resides  with  the  BCE.  The  BCE  ensures  required  MOAs  are  established;  that  they  address  reimbursable/non-reimbursable  expenses  and  requests  for  additional  levels  of  maintenance;  and  they receive  Judge  Advocate  review.    The  BCE  has  no  maintenance  responsibility  for electrical equipment that is not on the real property record or CE allowance standard and has no MOA in place. AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   5  1.5.2.1.  The  BCE  will  review  and  approve  non-RPIE  generator  connections requested by tenant organizations through the work order process per paragraph 1.8. (T-1) 1.5.2.2.  Defense  Logistics  Agency  (DLA)  capitalized  real  property  and  generator operation and maintenance that is funded through the DLA Sustainment, Restoration and  Modernization  (SRM)  process  is  not  a  BCE  responsibility  without  a  MOA  in place. If a MOA is in place, the terms of the MOA will determine BCE responsibility. (T-1) 1.5.3.  Technical  Documentation.  (T-1)  The  BCE  develops  and  maintains  as-built electrical  system  drawings,  operating  procedures,  schematics,  and  manufacturer  O&M manuals. 1.5.4.  Generator Authorization, Design, and Classification.  The BCE: (T-1) 1.5.4.1.  Develops  and  coordinates  authorization,  and  design  requests  through  the MAJCOM Senior  Engineer  to  AFCEC  for  authorization  and  approval  for  RPIE  and BCE-owned  EAID  generators, including  generators  procured  with  military construction (MILCON), O&M, SRM, DLA, or other funding.  Exception:  Develops and coordinates requests for generators serving dental and medical facilities through the  medical  field  operating  agency.  (See  memorandum  templates  in  Attachments  2 and 3,  or  fillable  forms  located  on  the  Air  Force  Portal,  AFCEC  Electrical Engineering https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c2D8EB9D63C49E8B4013C86DBD2091008&channelPageId=s2D8EB9D637283B5601377B2CE4030666&programId=t2D8EB9D6386BFB8B01394F5729351F52 site.) 1.5.4.2.  Maintains authorizations in the generator record. 1.5.5.  Generator Inventory.  The BCE: (T-1) 1.5.5.1.  Conducts  an annual  inventory of all CE-operated and maintained RPIE and EAID  generators  by  1  August  each  year,  including  generators  that  are  replacement-eligible, and forwards a copy to the MAJCOM Senior Engineer. 1.5.5.2.  For  RPIE  generator  accountability,  reconciles  the  inventory  with  real property  records;  for  EAID  generators,  with  Custodian  Authorization  and  Custody Receipt Listing records. 1.5.5.3.  Includes  generator  classification  and  all  generator  data  in  each  generator record, in accordance with AF Form 487. 1.5.6.  Five-Year  Validation  of  Authorizations.  The BCE will conduct a validation of generator  authorizations  every  five  years  to  identify  changes  to  mission  or  electrical system  configurations  and  will  forward  validation  reports  to  the  MAJCOM  Senior Engineer for revalidation (see paragraph 9). (T-1) 1.5.7.  Compliance  with  Federal  Regulations.  The  BCE  ensures  compliance  with applicable  provisions  of  40  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (CFR),  Part  63  Subpart  ZZZZ (all stationary prime power generators), 40 CFR Part 60 Subpart JJJJ (all stationary Spark Ignition  (SI)  generators),  40  CFR  Part  60  Subpart  IIII  (all  stationary  Compression Ignition (CI) generators), and 40 CFR Part 89 (portable diesel generators).  Depending on   6  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 generator location and age, operation and  maintenance of generators in accordance with the manufacturer's written instructions or procedures may be required. (T-0)  Note:  CFR terminology  is  unique  and  conflicts  with  National  Fire  Protection  Association  (NFPA) terminology and this AFI.  CFR definitions are used for the sole purpose of applying CFR requirements and are not used for classification purposes of the NFPA or this AFI. 1.5.8.  Refueling  Plans.  The  BCE  develops  written  prioritized  refueling  plans  and requirements  to  support  EAID  and  RPIE  generator  operation  and  other  generator operation identified within an approved MOA during extended power outages of not less than  seven  days.    The  BCE  forwards  a  copy  of  the  plans,  together  with  the  annual generator inventory, to the MAJCOM Senior Engineer. (T-1) 1.5.9.  Parallel System Operation.  The BCE ensures: (T-1) 1.5.9.1.  EAID or RPIE generators or any generator owned by another agency will not operate  in  parallel  with  any  real  property  electrical  system  (i.e.,  transformer, switchgear,  or  utility)  unless  authorized  by  AFCEC/CO.    (Exception:    Automatic Transfer Switches [ATSs] with momentary closed-transition transfer are permitted). 1.5.9.2.  Variable  renewable  energy  sources  do  not  operate  in  parallel  with  mission-critical generation. 1.5.9.3.  An  interconnection  agreement  is  in  place  when  integrating  utility-supplied energy into the installation electrical distribution system. 1.5.9.4.  Any  distributed  resource  operating  in  parallel  with  installation  electrical systems complies with Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1547, Standard  for  Interconnecting  Distributed  Resources  with  Electrical  Power  Systems, and  National  Electrical  Code  (NEC)  Articles  690  and  705,  to  ensure  adequate protection and separation from facility power systems during outages. 1.5.10.  Safety.  The BCE: 1.5.10.1.  Establishes a requirement for an onsite fire extinguisher near the generator in  accordance  with  AFI  91-203,  Air  Force  Consolidated  Occupational  Safety Instruction. (T-1) 1.5.10.2.  Complies  with  safety  codes  and  standards  to  ensure  compliance  with current electrical safe work practices in accordance with 29 CFR 1910. (T-0) 1.6.  Installation  Management  Flights for  ANG).  Installation Management Flights must coordinate with the BCE on generator installations and relocations to ensure compliance with regulations. (Facility  Manager 1.7.  Facility Managers.  (T-1) 1.7.1.  Verify  proper  function  of  all  building  equipment  and  systems  during  generator functional  testing  using  facility  load;  sign  the  AF  Form  487  following  the  semi-annual generator test. 1.7.2.  Maintain  and  post  next  to  the  generator  a  list  of  personnel  trained  to  operate facility generators. AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   7  1.7.3.  Initiate and obtain MAJCOM/CV approval for extending the semiannual generator testing, per paragraph 7.2. 1.7.4.  Provide  an  organizational  memorandum  for  record  for  facility  electrical  system testing and maintenance that is deferred for more than 6 months.  Consult the installation Staff Judge Advocate on associated potential safety, environmental, and operational risks. 1.8.  Tenant  Organizations.  Tenant  organizations  will  submit  a  work  request  for  any generator system that will be connected to real property, and establish an MOA with the BCE for the operation and maintenance of the generator on a reimbursable basis.  (T-1) 2.  AUTHORIZATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF GENERATORS. 2.1.  AFCEC/CO may authorize the use of generators for prime power or cogeneration on a case-by-case  basis.  When  submitting  a  request  for  cogeneration  within  the  area  electrical power system (EPS), the BCE must demonstrate that the system complies with  IEEE 1547, and must negotiate an interconnection agreement with the area EPS (utility) supplier. (T-1) 2.2.  Only  dedicated  standby  generators  may  be  authorized  to  support  mission-essential functions.  (T-1)    Generators  authorized  to  support  mission-essential  functions  will  be installed and connected to provide power only to mission-essential functions within a single facility in the event there is a loss of commercial power. (T-1)  Using one standby system to support multiple facilities is not authorized due to simultaneous risk to multiple missions. (T-1)    If  unique  circumstances  exist  where  one  standby  system  is  required  to  support  multiple facilities, an authorization request must be submitted to AFCEC/CO for approval. (T-1) 2.3.  Three  types  of  generators  may  be  authorized:    RPIE;  EAID;  and  other  (described  in paragraphs 2.3.1 through 2.3.3). (T-1) 2.3.1.  RPIE  Generators.    RPIE  generators  support  mission-critical  functions  where controlled  shut-down  or  delayed  power  restoration  is  unacceptable.    They  may  be authorized  for  missions  requiring  immediate  power  restoration,  uninterrupted  power,  or support  for  emergency  systems  as  defined  in  NEC  Article  700.  (T-1)    RPIE  generators are  classified  as  “Emergency,”  “COPS,”  Other  Permanently  Installed,”  or  “Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants (POL)/Fuels” (see paragraphs 2.3.1.1 through 2.3.1.4). 2.3.1.1.  Emergency.    This  classification  applies  to  life  safety  systems  required  to comply  with  NEC  Article  700.    Emergency  systems  must  also  comply  with  NFPA 110, Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems, Level 1 criteria. (T-0) 2.3.1.2.  COPS.    The  “COPS”  classification  applies  to  NEC  Article  708  systems, which must comply with NFPA 110 Level 2 criteria. (T-0) Installed” 2.3.1.3.  Other  Permanently classification  applies to  other  mission-critical  functions  not  designated  as “Emergency”  or  “COPS.”  These  systems  must  comply  with  NEC,  Article  701, “Legally Required Standby Systems,” and NPFA 110 Level 2 criteria. (T-0)   The  “Other  Permanently Installed. 2.3.1.4.  POL/Fuels.  This classification applies to Fuels Information Service Centers (Fuels  Operation)  and  Type  III,  IV,  and  V  hydrant  fueling  systems  designed  in accordance with Department of Defense Standard Designs AW 78-24-28, Pressurized Hydrant Fueling System, and AW 78-24-29, Pressurized Hot Fueling System, with a manual  interlocked  transfer  switch.    These  systems  must  be  sized  to  50  percent  of   8  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 pumping  capacity  in  the  Continental  United  States  and  100  percent  of  pumping capacity Outside Continental United States. (T-1) 2.3.2.  EAID Portable Units. EAID portable generators (trailer-mount or skid-mount) are classified  as  either  “POL/Fuels”  or  “Portable”  (see  paragraphs  2.3.2.1  through  2.3.2.2). (T-1) 2.3.2.1.  POL/Fuels.  The EAID “POL/Fuels” classification applies to Types I and II hydrant fueling systems, bulk fuel storage areas, non-hydrant operating storage areas, and vehicle fueling stations that must be prepositioned. (T-1)  Detached fuels testing labs not located in a fuels operations facility must have a generator connection plug and a manual transfer switch (MTS). (T-1) 2.3.2.2.  Portable.    “Portable”  generators  may  be  authorized  for  mission-essential functions  where  delayed  power  restoration  is  acceptable  and  portable  generation decreases simultaneous risk to the facility and generator. 2.3.3.  Other.    Other  generators  (5  kW  or  less)  not  classified  as  RPIE  or  EAID  are  not addressed in this AFI.  These generators are unit owned and are not the responsibility of the BCE to maintain, test or operate. 3.  AUTHORIZATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF FACILITIES. 3.1.  Facilities  listed  in  paragraphs  3.1.1  through  3.1.28  will  be  authorized  and  must  be classified  as  listed  below,  per  the  specified  Unified  Facility  Criteria  (UFC)  or  the  general criteria in UFC 352001, Interior Electrical Systems. (T-0)  Other facilities not addressed by the UFC may be approved by AFCEC/CO. (T-1) 3.1.1.  Medical  Healthcare  and  Ambulatory  Care  facilities  (excludes  medical  business occupancies  as  defined  by  NFPA)  in  accordance  with  UFC  4-510-01,  Design:  Medical Military Facilities (Emergency or Portable). 3.1.2.  Air  navigation  aids  and  facilities,  and  airfield  lighting  (COPS  or  Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.3.  Mission/emergency-essential refrigerated storage rooms (Portable). 3.1.4.  POL storage and dispensing facilities (POL/Fuels RPIE or EAID). 3.1.5.  Mission-essential/critical utility plants (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.6.  Critical  sewage  lift  stations  with  low-level  to  high-level  alarm  duration  less  than EAID deployment time (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.7.  Typical sewage lift stations with adequate alarm notification to start pre-positioned generator (Portable or Other Permanently Installed when required by local laws). 3.1.8.  CE control centers (Portable or Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.9.  Mission-essential/critical  communication  facilities  and (Other Permanently Installed). telephone  exchanges 3.1.10.  Fire  stations, (Emergency). including  fire  alarm,  fire  control,  and  radio  equipment AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   9  3.1.11.  Mission-essential  computer  automated  data  processing Permanently Installed). facilities (Other 3.1.12.  Air traffic control towers (COPS or Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.13.  Base weather stations (Other Permanently Installed or Portable). 3.1.14.  Surveillance and warning facilities (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.15.  Primary command and control facilities (does not include headquarters facilities without  direct  and  essential  command  and  control  functions)  (Other  Permanently Installed). 3.1.16.  Remotely  piloted  aircraft  control  pods  that  are  hardwired  into  a  RPIE  facility (Other Permanently Installed or Portable). 3.1.17.  Munitions storage facilities (Other Permanently Installed, or Portable). 3.1.18.  Entry  control  points,  security  gates,  and  related  security  lighting  systems (Portable). 3.1.19.  Aircraft and aircrew alert facilities (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.20.  Law enforcement and security facilities (COPS, Other Permanently Installed,  or Portable). 3.1.21.  Emergency  operations  centers  in  accordance  with  UFC  4-141-04,  Emergency Operations Center Planning and Design (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.22.  Mission, property, and life support facilities at remote and not readily accessible sites, such as split-site aircraft warning and surveillance installations (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.23.  One  dining  facility  per  installation  or  geographic  location  (Other  Permanently Installed or Portable). 3.1.24.  Industrial  facilities  that  have  noxious  fumes  requiring  removal  (provide  power for  the  exhaust  system  only;  in  the  case  of  an  aircraft  corrosion  control  facility,  also provide power to the hangar doors in accordance with UFC 4-211-02, Aircraft Corrosion Control  and  Paint  Facilities)  (Emergency)  (Aircraft  fuel  cell  repair  facilities  are  not authorized emergency or standby power). 3.1.25.  Readiness  facilities  relying  on  electrical  power  to  support  tactical  or  mission-essential operations (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.26.  Intelligence  processing  facilities  providing  mission-essential  support  to  combat and contingency tactical missions (Other Permanently Installed). 3.1.27.  Simulation  or  materials  laboratories  where  continuous  power  is  needed  for human  safety  or  to  maintain  low-tolerance  temperature  (<5  degrees  Fahrenheit)  and humidity  (<5  percent)  control  to  avoid  catastrophic  consequences.  (Other  Permanently Installed). 3.1.28.  Emergency  lighting,  elevators,  fire  alarms,  security  systems,  or  other  life  safety equipment  within  high-occupancy  buildings  or  places  of  assembly  of  1,000  or  more people, for safely moving people out (Emergency).   10  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 4.  ACCOUNTING FOR GENERATORS. 4.1.  RPIE  Generators.  (T-1)  Notify  the  real  property  office  if  these  generators  are temporarily  or  permanently  relocated  from  one  facility  to  another.    Document  and  account for all RPIE  generators  awaiting installation in  the appropriate work order documents.   For excess  generators  and  associated  equipment  (i.e.,  automatic  transfer  switches),  request MAJCOM review and disposition instructions before removing the generator and associated equipment from a RPIE facility.  After removing a generator, account for it on Department of Defense  (DD)  Form  1149,  Requisition  and  Invoice/Shipping  Document,  if  the  generator  is shipped  to  another  base  or  to  the  CEMIRT.      If  the  generator  is  turned  in  to  the  Defense Reutilization  and  Marketing  Office,  account  for  it  on  DD  Form  1348-1A,  Issue Release/Receipt Document. 4.2.  EAID  Generators.  (T-1)  EAID  generators  are  listed  in  Allowance  Standard  (AS), requisitioned from  Warner  Robins  Air  Force  Life  Cycle  Management  Center (AFLCMC/WNZEC),  235  Byron  Street  (Bldg  300-West  Wing,  Bay  D),  Robins  AFB,  GA 31098-1647, DSN 472-1640, Comm (478) 222-1640, and accounted for by Base Supply and AFLCMC/WNZEC. EAID units must be reclassified as RPIE, and coordinated with the Item Manager, AFLCMC/WNZEC when they no longer meet the definition for an EAID or turned in to Base Supply. 4.3.  AFLCMC/WNZEC.  (T-1)      Report  excess  EAID  generators  to  AFLCMC/WNZEC. Any RPIE or commercial EAID generators that are no longer required or are inoperable must be  identified  to  the  MAJCOM  for  review  and  disposition  coordination.  Disposal  of  mobile electric  power  (MEP)  EAID  generators  must  be  first  coordinated  with  the  EAID  Item Manager  at  AFLCMC/WNZEC. required  or  needed  by AFLCMC/WNZEC, they must be disposed of in the same manner as RPIE and commercial EAID generators. If  generators  are  not 5.  DOCUMENTATION AND RECORDS. 5.1.  Operations, maintenance, repair, and replacement of RPIE and EAID generators must be documented on the following forms and will become part of the shop record only: (T-1) 5.1.1.  AF Form 719, Historical Record - Diesel-Electric Generator and System, for the life of the generator. 5.1.2.  AF Form 487, Generator Operating Log (Inspection and Testing), for three years within the shop record. 5.1.3.  Generator authorization letter from AFCEC/COSM. 5.1.4.  Approved generator design from AFCEC/COSM (installed after 1 Nov 2011). 5.1.5.  Waivers or environmental permits with restrictions, if any. 6.  GENERATOR DESIGN AND INSTALLATION, AND EPA REQUIREMENTS. 6.1.  RPIE  Generator  Authorizations  and  Designs.  (T-1)  RPIE  generator  authorizations and  design  approvals  must  be  obtained  from  AFCEC/CO  or  its  designee.  Submit  the generator  authorization  request  during  project  initiation  (programming)  and  submit  the design  approval  request  at  the  65  percent  design  milestone.  If  electrical  design  changes  are made  after  the  65  percent  design  submittal,  another  design  approval  request  is  required. AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   11  Requests  must  be  in  accordance  with  the  templates  provided  in  Attachments  2  and  3,  or downloaded  from  the  Air  Force  Portal,  AFCEC  Electrical  Engineering  site.  Authorization and approval memos become part of the generator permanent record. 6.2.  EAID  Generator  Authorizations.  (T-1)    EAID  generator  authorizations  must  be approved in writing by AFCEC/CO or its designee. Submit generator authorization requests during project initiation (programming); design approvals are not required. Requests must be submitted  in  accordance  with  the  template  provided  in  Attachment  2,  or  downloaded  from the Air Force Portal AFCEC Electrical Engineering site. The approval memo becomes part of the generator permanent record. 6.3.  Partial Facility Generator Power.  (T-1)When only a portion of a facility is authorized generator power, that portion of the facility must be serviced by a separate subpanel fed from the  generator  and  switched  by  either  an  MTS  or  ATS,  depending  on  the  mission  of  the facility.  A  whole-building  generator  may  be  requested  only  when  the  authorized  mission-essential  load  is  greater  than  70  percent  of  the  total  facility  load.  For  existing  facilities without  segregated  mission-essential  subpanels,  size  replacement  generators  and  transfer switches only for the authorized mission-essential load, and develop a plan for load-shedding all non-essential loads. 6.4.  Generator  Sizing.  (T-1)  Existing,  new,  or  replacement  EAID  or  RPIE  generator systems  must  be  sized  to  achieve  greater  than  50  percent  rated  load,  and  capable  of supporting measured or calculated, starting, and step load as defined by a qualified, licensed electrical  design engineer or the senior  electrical  engineer in  the unit for in-house designed projects. For existing generator replacements, load data supporting generator selection must be provided; acceptable forms of support data would include the monthly load data recorded on AF Form 487, for the past 12 months; meter data showing average load and peak over a three-day  period  during  a  period  of  full  operation;  or  accurate  facility  one-lines  with  all associated panel schedules, equipment schedules, and load calculations. 6.5.  Load  Banks.  (T1)    For  generator  installations  sized  250  kW  and  higher,  the  design must include provision for portable load bank/generator connection at the ATS or distribution equipment (not at the generator). The connection must be sized for the generator kW rating. Reference  UFC  3-540-01,  Engine-Driven  Generator  Systems for  Backup  Power Applications, for additional guidance. 6.6.  Mission  Uninterruptable  Power  Supplies  (UPS).  (T-1)  Mission  UPSs  installed  to provide power conditioning and transitional backup power until RPIE generators assume the load  must  be  configured  to  minimize  UPS  battery  charging  during  generator  operation  and disabled  when  possible.  Size  the  generator  for  actual  UPS  configuration  and  not  based  on maximum UPS capacity. 6.7.  ATS or MTS. 6.7.1.  Replace all solid neutral (3-phase, 3-pole) ATSs with switched neutral (3-phase, 4-pole) ATSs whenever the existing generator or ATS is replaced. (T-1) 6.7.2.  Solid  neutral  MTSs  are  allowed  for  connecting  EAID  generators  only  when  the EAID generator neutral-ground connection (main bonding jumper) is properly bonded or removed per NEC Article 250. (T-1)   12  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 6.8.  Medical  Facility  Generators.  Design  of  medical  military  facility  generator  systems must comply with UFC 4-510-01. (T-0) 6.9.  Standby  Generators  for  Hangar  Door  Secondary  Operation.  (T-1)    This  is  not usually  authorized  and  must  be  strongly  justified  when  a  secondary  method  cannot  be installed.  Existing  and  new  backup  generator  installations  for  hangar  door  systems  require AFCEC/CO  approval,  including  instances  where  the  generator  is  supplied  as  part  of  the hangar door installation. If approved, connections must be located within four (4) feet of the hangar floor below the hangar door motor. 6.10.  Generator  Connections.  When  a  permanently  installed  generator  is  not  authorized, manual connection points may be locally authorized by the BCE. For additional connection guidance, reference ETL 10-7. 6.11.  Automatic  Transfer  Switches.  Transfer  switches  must  have  either  an  internal  or external bypass capability. (T-1) 6.12.  Critical  Operations  Power  Systems  (COPS).  (T-1)  Power  systems  for  missions critical to national security are required to comply with NEC Article 708, and must be pre-approved  by  AFCEC/CO.    Submit  COPS  generator  classification  approval  requests  to AFCEC/CO through the appropriate MAJCOM Senior Engineer. 6.13.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  Requirements.  Federal  regulatory  air quality  requirements  for  generator  engines  must  be  complied  with;  however,  they  vary greatly  from  engine  to  engine,  and  are  frequently  amended.  (T-1)    Requirements  address emissions  limits,  operating  limits,  management  practices,  maintenance  requirements, performance testing, record keeping, and reporting.  Specific requirements differ according to whether  the  engine  is  new  or  existing;  whether  the  engine  is  located  at  an  area  source  or major  source  of  hazardous  air  pollutants  (HAP)  emissions;  and  whether  the  engine  is  a compression ignition or a spark ignition engine.  Several regulations (see paragraphs 6.13.1 through  6.13.2)  have  expanded  the  number  and  type  of  stationary  RICE  that  must  comply with federal requirements. (T-0) 6.13.1.  Stationary  Generators.  The  BCE  shall  ensure  generators  meet  the  following regulations: (T-0) 6.13.1.1.  40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ, National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for RICE - "the RICE rule". 6.13.1.2.  40 CFR Part 60 Subpart JJJJ, New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) - Standards  of  Performance  for  Stationary  SI  Internal  Combustion  Engines    –  "the Spark Ignition NSPS rule". 6.13.1.3.  40  CFR  Part  60  Subpart  IIII,  Standards  of  Performance  for  Stationary  CI Internal Combustion Engines – "the Compression Ignition NSPS rule". 6.13.2.  Portable Generators.  The BCE shall ensure generators meet 40 CFR PART 89, Control of Emissions from New and In-Use Nonroad Compression-Ignition Engines. (T-0) AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   13  7.  RPIE  GENERATOR  AND  ATS  TESTING  AND  INSPECTIONS.  (T-1  except  as otherwise noted) 7.1.  Accomplish  inspections  and  full-system  tests  (generator,  ATS  with  typical  mission-essential facility load) on RPIE generators semiannually. Test generators under facility load. 7.2.  The using organization may not deny the BCE permission to accomplish a full-system test. The BCE will make every  effort  to  accommodate the user’s mission operations within the  testing  month,  but  in  no  case  will  the  time  since  the  last  full-system  test  exceed  six months.    (Exception:    A  semiannual  full-system  functional  test  with  facility  loads  may  be denied  one  time,  if  approved  in  writing  by  the  MAJCOM/CV,  resulting  in  an  automatic three-month extension that will extend the maximum time between full-system tests to nine months.)  If the MAJCOM/CV directs that a full-system test not be performed, the BCE must advise the Installation Commander that a second postponement will result in decertification and  removal  of  the  RPIE  generator  from  the  facility.  The  BCE  will  copy  the  MAJCOM Senior  Engineer  and  AFCEC/CO  on  this  action.  Correspondence  will  be  filed  in  the generator folder. The MAJCOM/CV may not delegate this authority. 8.  REPORTING RPIE GENERATORS.  (T-1 except as otherwise noted) 8.1.  If functional load testing indicates the generator is loaded less than 30 percent of rated capacity  over  a  12-month  period,  BCEs  will  take  actions  described  in  paragraphs  8.1.1 through 8.1.1.2. 8.1.1.  Compile a list  of generators that do not  meet  the required 30 percent  loading for facility  loads  over  a  12-month  period.    Categorize  and  certify  the  generators  as “Replacement  Eligible,”  “Replace  by  Attrition”  or  “Replacement  Not  Feasible”  (See Attachment 1, Terms) and document the category in a memo and file it with the generator records. 8.1.1.1.  RPIE  generators  used  to  support  large  in-rush  currents  may  be  sized  for starting current. These generators may be excluded from paragraph 8.1.1. 8.1.1.2.  RPIE generators for fire pumps and RPIE generators rated 25 kW and lower are not required to comply with paragraph 8.1.1. 8.2.  Any  generator  installation  (new  or  replacement)  and  generator  removal  or  relocation requires AFCEC/CZ coordination to ensure EPA clean air compliance regulations are met. 8.3.  Consult with AFCEC/CZ when an EPA-permitted generator is removed from the base; that  generator  must  be  removed  from  the  Clean  Air  Act  Title  V  air  permit.    Additionally, because the permit requires an accurate list of active permitted generators on base, the BCE must  check  with  AFCEC/CZ  to  determine  if  the  generator  size  is  small  enough  to  be excluded from the permit. 8.4.  By  1  October  each  year,  MAJCOM  Senior  Engineers  will  review  base  generator inventory  reports  and  provide  AFCEC/COM  CEMIRT  a  list  of  “Replacement  Eligible” generators that cannot be redistributed within their command. 9.  FIVE-YEAR REVALIDATION OF GENERATOR AUTHORIZATIONS.  (T-1) 9.1.  Every five  years by 1 August  of the  reporting  year,  BCEs must revalidate through the MAJCOM Senior Engineer the generator authorization memorandum for changes to mission   14  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 or  modifications  to  the  authorized  electrical  system.  MAJCOM  Senior  Engineers  will coordinate  with  AFCEC/CO  for  reauthorization  or  extension  of  the  existing  generator authorization. 9.2.  AFCEC/COSM  must  be  notified  through  the  MAJCOM  Senior  Engineer  when  a generator authorization is no longer required. 9.3.  The BCE will prepare a plan for all generators that do not have an AFCEC authorization and  are  available  for  relocation  or  disposition.  The  plan  will  be  included  as  a  part  of  the revalidation process. 10.  PRIME GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS.  (T-1) 10.1.  Generators  used  for  prime  power  must  be  authorized  by  AFCEC/CO.  Fuel  and configuration  requirements  for  standby  generators  do  not  apply  to  prime  power  generator installations. 11.  POWER  CONDITIONING  AND  CONTINUATION  INTERFACING  EQUIPMENT (PCCIE).  (T-1) 11.1.  PCCIE, which typically includes UPSs, is classified as equipment and must be owned by  the  mission  and  not  the  BCE.  For  guidance  on  acquisition  and  maintenance  of  UPS equipment, contact the PCCIE Product Group Manager, 500 CBSS/GBLD, Building 1207-N, 6029 Wardleigh Road, Hill AFB, UT 84056-5838.  JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Installations, Logistics & Mission Support AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   15  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, 10 June 2005 (rescinded) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction ETL 13-4, Standby Generator Maintenance and Testing Criteria, 18 November 2013 ETL 10-7, Connection Methods for Standby Generators – 600 Volts or Less (rescinded) NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC) 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ, National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for RICE - "the RICE rule". 40 CFR Part 60 Subpart JJJJ, New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) - Standards of Performance for Stationary SI Internal Combustion Engines  – "the Spark Ignition NSPS rule" 40 CFR Part 60 Subpart IIII, Standards of Performance for Stationary CI Internal Combustion Engines – "the Compression Ignition NSPS rule" 40 CFR Part 89, Control of Emissions from New and In-Use Nonroad Compression-Ignition Engines 40 CFR 1068.30, (General Compliance Provisions For Highway, Stationary, And Nonroad Programs) What Definitions Apply to This Part? IEEE 1547, Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems NFPA 110, Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems UFC 4-510-01, Design: Medical Military Facilities, with Change 1 UFC 3-520-01, Interior Electrical Systems, with Change 2 UFC 3-540-01, Engine-Driven Generator Systems for Backup Power Applications Prescribed Forms AF Form 487, Generator Operating Log (Inspection Checklist) AF Form 719, Historical Record – Diesel-Electric Generator and System AF Form 731, Crankshaft Deflection Record AF Form 734, Cylinder Liner and Ring Wear Record AF Form 1167, Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Diesel - Electric) AF Form 3507, Diesel Engine Inspection Data AF Form 3508, Diesel Cylinder Compression and Firing Tests   16  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 AF Form 3509, Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Gas Turbine - Electric) Adopted Forms AF Form 979, Danger AF Form 982, Do Not Start Abbreviations and Acronyms  AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center AFCEC/CF—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Facility Engineering Directorate AFCEC/CN—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Energy Directorate AFCEC/CO—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate AFCEC/COM—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, CEMIRT Division AFCEC/COSM—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Mechanical/Electrical Branch AFCEC/CZ—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Environmental Directorate AFLCMC/WNZEC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AS—Allowance standard ATS—Automatic Transfer Switch BCE—Base Civil Engineer CA/CRL—custodian receipt/custody receipt listing CE—civil engineering CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CI—Compression Ignition Engine (Diesel Engine) CONUS—continental United States COPS—Critical Operations Power System DD—Department (of) Defense (forms and directives) DEPPM—Defense Energy Program Policy Memorandum DLA—Defense Logistics Agency DoD—Department of Defense DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office EAID—Equipment Authorized Inventory Data AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   17  EMCS—emergency management and control system CEMIRT—Civil Engineer Maintenance, Inspection, and Repair Team EOC—emergency operations center EPS—electrical power system ETL—Engineering Technical Letter FISC—Fuels Information Service Centers FOA—Field Operating Agency HAP—hazardous air pollutants IEEE—Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ISO—International Organization for Standardization J-SIIDS—Joint Services Interior Intrusion Detection System kVA—kilovolt-ampere kW—kilowatt MAJCOM/CV—MAJCOM Environmental MAJCOM—major command MEP—mobile electric power MILCON—military construction MOA—memorandum of agreement MTS—manual transfer switch NEC—National Electrical Code NESHAP—National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants NFPA—National Fire Protection Association NSPS—New Source Performance Standards O&M—operations and maintenance OCONUS—outside the continental United States OPR—office of primary responsibility PCCIE—Power Conditioning and Continuation Interfacing Equipment PF—power factor POL—petroleum, oils, and lubricants RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RICE—reciprocating internal combustion engine RPIE—real property installed equipment   18  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 S/R&M—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization SCADA—Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System SI—spark ignition engine (gasoline or natural gas engine) UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria UMACS—utility monitoring and control system UPS—uninterruptable power supply Terms Classification—Backup  generators  may  be  Real  Property  Installed  Equipment  (RPIE)  or Equipment Authorized Inventory Data (EAID) portable units. RPIE generators support mission-critical  functions  where  delayed  power  restoration  is  unacceptable.  RPIE  generators  may  be approved for missions that require immediate power restoration, uninterrupted power, or support to emergency systems defined in NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC) Article 700. EAID generators  support  mission-critical  or  infrastructure-critical  functions  where  delayed  power restoration is acceptable. Compression  Ignition  Engine  (Diesel  Engine)—A  RICE  that  is  not  a  spark  ignition  engine.  Compression ignition engine (diesel engine) is an internal combustion engine that uses the heat of compression to  initiate ignition  and burn the fuel  that has been injected into the combustion chamber. Continuous  Power  (International  Organization  for  Standardization  (ISO)  Engine Classification)—  Power  that  a  generator  can  continuously  deliver  for  an  unlimited  number  of hours  per  year  while  following  the  manufacturer's  stated  maintenance  intervals.  Load  rating  is continuous or nonvarying. Normally, a generator can operate at 110 percent of this rating for a limited period, usually 1 hour, with or without interruption, within a 12-hour period of operation. However,  some  generators  do  not  offer  overload  capability  and  designers  have  to  specify  it  if required. Emergency Systems—NEC 700 life safety (e.g., hospitals), not mission-critical functions. Portable  Generator—Any generator that is used in a portable (or transportable) application in which the engine will not  stay  at a single location for a  full  year or more.   Legally  considered “NonRoad”  RICE  engines  under  40  CFR  89.    By  definition  no  RIPE  generator  is  a  “portable generator”  and  nearly  all  EAID  generators  are  “portable  generators”.    However,  any  EIAD generator  remaining  in  a  single  location  for  at  least  a  full  year  is  legally  reclassified  and  a “stationary generator.” Prime  Power—Generators  rated  for  continuous  operation.  Generator  may  considered  prime when utility source is not available or unreliable.  Generators designed to operate in parallel with the utility are also considered to be prime power. Qualified Person—One who has skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of  the  electrical  equipment  and  installations  and  has  received  safety  training  on  the  hazards involved. Supervisors will set additional criteria as well as determine and document where each person within his control is qualified. AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   19  Reciprocating  Internal  Combustion  Engine  (RICE)—Means  any  reciprocating  internal combustion engine which uses reciprocating motion to convert heat energy into mechanical work and which is not mobile. Stationary RICE differs from mobile RICE in that stationary RICE is not a non-road engine as defined at 40 CFR 1068.30, and is not used to propel a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition. Semiannually:—Every six months. Spark  Ignition  Engine  (Gasoline  or  Natural  Gas  Engine)—A  RICE  with  a  spark  plug  (or other  sparking  device)  and  with  operating  characteristics  significantly  similar  to  the  theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation. Dual-fuel engines in which a liquid fuel (typically diesel fuel)  is  used  for  CI  and  gaseous  fuel  (typically  natural  gas)  is  used  as  the  primary  fuel  at  an annual average ratio of less than 2 parts diesel fuel to 100 parts total fuel on an energy equivalent basis are spark ignition engines. Standby  Power—Alternate  power  source  that  is  available  for  through  either  automatic  or manual  operation.    Standby  power  may  be  real  property  or  equipment  based  on  HQ  AFCEC authorization. Stationary Generator—Any generator that is used either in a fixed application or in a portable (or transportable) application in which the engine will stay at a single location for at least a full year.   Legally considered “stationary RICE” engines under 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart ZZZZ, 40 CFR Part 60 Subpart JJJJ, and 40 CFR Part 60 Subpart IIII.  By definition, all RPIE generators are “stationary generators”; however, if an EAID generator remains in one location for one year of more it is also legally considered a “stationary generator.” Switchgear—An  indoor  or  outdoor  metal  structure  containing  electrical  switching  and interrupting  equipment  with  buses  and  connections  and  associated  control,  instrumentation, metering,  protective,  and  regulating  devices.  The  associated  devices  are  in  separate  grounded metal compartments from the switching and interrupting equipment. UPS—Uninterruptable  power  supply  purchased  with  funds  other  than  3400  (Operations  and Maintenance Appropriations). Owned by a mission, not the BCE.  Classified as equipment, not RPIE.  Meets NEC (NFPA 70-2011) definition as “...used to provide alternating current power to a load for some specified period of time in the event of power failure.”    20  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 Attachment 2 NEW AND REPLACEMENT GENERATOR AUTHORIZATION AND DESIGN TEMPLATES (Date)   AFCEC/COSM IN TURN   MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AETC CIVIL ENGINEER    FROM: XXX CES/CC    SUBJECT: Generator Authorization Request for Building <number>, All AFB, FL  1. Project Requested:     123 Bedford Way  All AFB, FL 11111 MAJCOM: Base:  Project:  Status: POC: (Name and Contact Information) RPIE or EAID: Classification: (Emergency, COPS, Other Permanently Installed, POL/Fuels, Portable)  2. Project  Description:  (What  mission  will the generator support? Mission description? New or replacement generator? Please be specific.)   3.  Description  of  Emergency/Mission-Critical  Loads:  (Summary  of  loads  that  will  be  on generator power. What and why does it need power? Please be specific.)  4. Impact of Power Loss on Mission: (What is the impact to the mission if power is lost and not restored immediately or within a few hours?)      Attachment: DD Form 1391 or AF Form 332  BCE Signature Block or designee  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   21  (Date)     1st Ind, HQ AETC CIVIL ENGINEER  MEMORANDUM FOR AFCEC/COSM  1. Recommend [approval/alternative] of generator authorization as a [RPIE/EAID]. (If recommending alternative state why it does or doesn’t meet AFI requirements)  2. [Meets/Does not meet] AFI 32-1062 criteria.       Civil Engineer Signature Block or Designee   22    AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 NEW AND REPLACEMENT GENERATOR DESIGN EVIDENCE TEMPLATE     MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AETC CIVIL ENGINEER AFCEC/COSM IN TURN (Date)  FROM:  XXX 123 All Base FL 11111 CES/CC or Bedford AFCEE Way  SUBJECT: Design Evidence – Request for RPIE Generator Design Approval  1. Project Requested:  MAJCOM: Base: Project Number: Status: Design Review %: 65%, 90%, Other POC: (Name and Contact Information) New/Replacement: Classification: (Emergency, COPS, Other Permanently Installed, POL/Fuels, Portable)  2. Project Description: (What mission will the generator support? Mission description? Please be specific.)  3.  Description  of  Emergency/Mission-Critical  Loads:  (Summary  of  loads  that  will  be  on generator power. What and why does it need power? Please be specific.)  4. Design Information:  Service Transformer kVA: Service Voltage: Service Entrance Ampacity: ATS Ampacity: Emergency Panel Ampacity: Emergency Connected Load: Emergency Demand Load: Avg kW: (Please include if replacement generator/not required for new) Max kW: (Please include if replacement generator/not required for new)  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   23  Generator Rating: kW:  kVA:  PF:  Generator Duty: Type of Fuel: Fuel Supply: Day Tank Capacity: Sub-base Capacity: External Tank Capacity: Enclosure Type: Cooling Type:      BCE Signature Block or designee   Attachments: 1. One-line diagram 2. Emergency panel schedule (Optional attachment is software sizing recommendation)     1st Ind, HQ AETC CIVIL ENGINEER    MEMORANDUM FOR AFCEC/COSM  1.  Recommend  [approval/alternative]  for  generator  design  evidence  and  [____kW]  generator size. (If recommending alternative state why)  2. [Meets/does not meet] the requirements of AFI 32-1062. (If it doesn’t meet AFI requirements, state why.)     (Date) Civil Engineer Signature Block or Designee    24  AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015 EXISTING GENERATOR AUTHORIZATION AND DESIGN SIZING TEMPLATE Attachment 3   MEMORANDUM    FROM:  XXX 123 All Base, FL 11111 FOR HQ MAJCOM CIVIL ENGINEER AFCEC/COSM IN TURN (Date) CES/CC or Bedford AFCEE Way  SUBJECT: Existing Generator Authorization & Design Sizing  1. Building Description:  MAJCOM: Base: Building Number: Mission-Authorized Emergency Power:  2. Generator Description:  Generator Type: <RPIE or EAID> Emergency Classification: Emergency, COPS, Other AFI 32-1062 Sub Paragragh: <7.6.1 – 5.1.27> Whole Building Generator: <Yes or No>  3. Description of Emergency/Mission-Critical Loads: Narrative. Include special considerations that may drive a larger generator sizing  4. Impact of power lost on mission: Narrative  5. Generator Design Information:  Service Transformer kVA: Emergency Connected Load: Emergency Demand Load: Average kW: <From last 12 months> Max kW: <From last 12 months> Generator Rating (from nameplate): kW: kVA: PF:  Signature Block of XXX CES/CC (or designated representative)AFI32-1062  15 JANUARY 2015   25    1st Ind, HQ MAJCOM CIVIL ENGINEER   MEMORANDUM FOR AFCEC/COSM  1. MAJCOM Recommendation: <Approve RPIE, EAID, Connection Only, Disapprove>   (Date) MAJCOM EE (or Designee) Signature Block  