 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-4003  ARMY REGULATION 621-8  MARINE CORPS ORDER 1550.24A  OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS INSTRUCTION 1550.12A 14 JANUARY 2015 Personnel MANAGING THE DEFENSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROGRAM COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1D  Supersedes:   AFJI 16-103, 31 August 1994 Certified by: AF/A1 (Mr. Robert E. Corsi) Pages: 26   the  Military  Departments.  It  defines This  joint  service  publication  provides  guidance  for  managing  the  Defense  English  Language Program  (DELP)  within the  program,  outlines responsibilities  and  provides  guidance  concerning  resident  and  non-resident  programs  for  DoD and Security Cooperation Education and Training Program (SCETP) English Language Training (ELT)  needs.  This  publication  implements  AFPD  36-40  Air  Force  Language,  Region  and Culture  Program,  DoD  Directive  (DoDD)  5160.41E,  Defense  Language  Program  (DLP), October 21, 2005, DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5160.71, DoD Language Testing Program, January 26, 2009, DoDI 5160.70, Management of Department of Defense (DoD) Language and Regional Proficiency  Capabilities,  June  12,  2007;  refer  to  these  directives  for  further  information.    In collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve  (HQ  USAF/RE)  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services (HQ USAF/A1) develops personnel policy for managing the defense english language program.  This  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level;  all  supplements  must  be approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval.    The  Air  Force,  as  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  for  this  instruction, must approve and publish interim changes. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication  to  the  OPR  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.   2  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 Requests for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  The authority to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication is T-0 in compliance with AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management.    Requests  for  waivers  must  be  processed through command channels to the publications OPR for consideration.   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-4003, Managing the Defense English Language Program, renames, updates and supersedes Air Force Joint Instruction 16-103.  Specific changes include  corrections  to  procedures,  modifications  to  roles  and  responsibilities,  the  addition  of  a requirements process and updated references to regulations.  Chapter 1—DEFENSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROGRAM (DELP)    1.1. Overview.   ...............................................................................................................  1.2. Functional Responsibilities.   ...................................................................................  1.3. Roles and Responsibilities.   ....................................................................................  Figure  1.1. DELP Communication Flow.  .................................................................................  Chapter 2—ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING    2.1. English Language Training for International Military Students (IMS).   ................  2.2. English Language Training for DoD Personnel.   ....................................................  2.3. Support for In-Country Programs under Security Assistance.   ...............................  2.4. Language Laboratory Equipment.   .........................................................................  Chapter 3—ENGLISH LANGUAGE TESTING    3.1. English Language Testing.  .....................................................................................  Chapter 4—REQUIREMENTS AND CAPACITY REVIEWS    4.1. Resident English Language Training Requirements.   .............................................  4.2. Resident English Language Training Requirements Process.  ................................  4.3. Non-resident English Language Training Requirements.   ......................................  4.4. Capacity Reviews.   .................................................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—USEFUL ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING PUBLICATIONS      3 3 3 4 6 13 13 14 15 16 17 17 18 18 18 19 19 21 26 AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   3  Chapter 1 DEFENSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROGRAM (DELP) 1.1.  Overview.  Per DoD Directive 5160.41E, the Secretary of the Air Force is designated as the Executive Agent (EA) for the Defense Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC). DLIELC implements the DELP. 1.1.1.  The  DELP  includes  all  English-as-a-second-language  and  English-as-a-foreign-language  training  programs  conducted  by,  or  under  contract  to,  a  DoD  component.  The DELP does not include: 1.1.1.1.  English-Language  Training  Programs  (ELTPs)  for  cadets  and  midshipmen  at U.S. Service academies, 1.1.1.2.  ELTPs for dependents attending dependent schools operated by DoD, 1.1.1.3.  ELTPs for individuals voluntarily pursuing personal growth or academic credit, 1.1.1.4.  ELTPs under separate contract by a foreign country to prepare their students to attend DLIELC or follow-on training, 1.1.1.5.  English  for  specific  purposes  of  Defense  Agencies  designed  for  internal  use  or special missions for which the Agency maintains operational responsibility. 1.2.  Functional Responsibilities.  (T-0) 1.2.1.  DoD Senior  Language Authority  (SLA). Subject  to  policy oversight  of the Office of the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Personnel  and  Readiness  (OUSD  (P&R)),  IAW  DoDD 5160.41E,  the  DoD  SLA  provides  overall  policy  guidance  for  the  Defense  Language Program.  The  DoD  SLA  is  assisted  and  supported  by  the  Defense  Language  and  National Security  Education  Office  (DLNSEO)  and  the  Primary  Functional  Sponsor  (PFS)  for  the DELP. 1.2.2.  Executive  Agent.    The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  provides  oversight  of  the  DELP through the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) IAW AFPD 36-40  and  has  delegated  EA  responsibility  to  the  Air  Force  Directorate  of  Force Development  (AF/A1D),  IAW  Headquarters  Air  Force  Missions  Directive  1-32,  Deputy Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force,Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  and  Joint  Security Cooperation  Education  and  Training  (JSCET)  (i.e.  AFI  16-105).    The  Air  Force  Language, Regional  Expertise,  and  Culture  ProgramOffice  (AF/A1DV-LREC)  functions  as  the  staff action office for AF/A1D. 1.2.3.  Primary  Functional  Sponsor  (PFS).  The  Director,  Defense  Security  Cooperation Agency  (DSCA)  is  designated  as  the  PFS  and  provides  advocacy  and  policy  oversight  on matters  related  to  security  assistance  and  security  cooperation  in  support  of  international English-language education and training.  The PFS oversees the DELP to determine the need for improving the quality and efficiency of support to security cooperation programs and to recommend  changes  to  policy,  levels  of  resources,  management  procedures,  or  content  of training, to meet DoD security cooperation requirements most economically, uniformly and effectively.   4  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 1.2.4.  Lead  Command  (LC).  As  the  Education  and  Training  core  function  lead  integrator, Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (AETC) is the LC exercising authority over DLIELC and is charged with the execution of the DELP IAW AFPD 36-40. 1.3.  Roles and Responsibilities.  (T-0) 1.3.1.  Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD (P&R)): 1.3.1.1.  Provides  policy,  oversight,  and  guidance  at  the  departmental  level  through  the DoD  SLA  on  issues  regarding  language  and  culture,  in  addition  to  responsibilities  in DoDI 5160.70 and DoDI 5160.71. 1.3.1.2.  Ensures guidance is provided to the EA allowing the EA and LC to synchronize execution with the DELP. 1.3.1.3.  In  coordination  with  the  EA,  annually  reviews  DLIELC  program  and  budget requirements provided by  DLIELC  and the EA and advocates for resources in  the DoD Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) system to ensure DLIELC is capable of performing the full range of its assigned DoD mission. 1.3.1.4.  Supports  the  DLIELC  English-language  curriculum,  test  development,  and administration,  through  DoD  oversight  functions/organizations,  such  as  DSCA  and DLNSEO. 1.3.1.5.  Provides  a  representative  to  the  English  Language  Program  Working  Group (ELPWG). 1.3.2.  Defense  Security  Cooperation  Agency  (DSCA):  Provides  Security  Cooperation Education  Training  Program  (SCETP)-related  ELT  policy  guidance,  on  behalf  of  the  USD     (Policy). 1.3.2.1.  Provides guidance to the EA for ELT programs and resource allocations plans. 1.3.2.2.  Provides a representative to the ELPWG. 1.3.2.3.  Advises the EA on student management issues and prioritization. 1.3.2.4.  Coordinates  interagency  initiatives  and  requirements  for  ELT,  in  support  of SCETP, with the DoD SLA and the EA. 1.3.2.4.1.    Coordinates  ELT  and/or  English  Comprehension  Level  (ECL)  waiver requests, policy,   and correspondence through the EA for awareness and formal response IAW Figure 1.1. 1.3.2.4.2.  Provides  prioritization  guidance  to  the  EA  when  coordinating  waiver requests. 1.3.2.5.  Distributes and enforces DELP policies to the Military Departments (MILDEPs) and      Combatant  Commands  (CCMDs),  in  coordination  with  the  EA.  Ensures  each Security Cooperation Officer (SCO) receives new guidance and tracks SCO performance, with regard to  regulatory compliance. 1.3.2.6.  Develops  overall guidance for Country  Liaison Officers that covers resourcing,   conduct,  and  oversight.    Items  covered  should  include  legal  status  and  funding AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   5  requirements      IAW  the  JSCET  and  DSCA  Manual  5105.38-M,  Security  Assistance Management Manual    (SAMM). 1.3.2.7.  Develops Memorandums of Agreement (MOA) with the implementing agencies and   partner countries to ensure procedures are clear. 1.3.2.8.  Supports  the  ELT  Requirements  Forecast  and  DELP  Program  Guidance  Letter (PGL)      processes  via  the  Defense  Security  Assistance  Management  System  (DSAMS) and validation of   the Annual DLIELC ELT Requirements Forecast. 1.3.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services, (AF/A1): 1.3.3.1.    Delegates  DLIELC  EA  responsibilities  under  the  authority  defined  in  DoDD 5160.41E to AF/A1D and IAW EA responsibilities outlined in Section 1.2.2. 1.3.3.2.  Executes EA responsibilities as defined in DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent, and DoDD 5160.41E. 1.3.3.3.  Represents SecAF in coordinating all policy issues regarding the DELP. 1.3.3.4.  Maintains a separate program element for DLIELC. 1.3.3.5.  Develops  the  overall  ELT  requirement  generation  process  (See  Chapter  4)  for resident  and  non-resident  ELT  training  and  establishes  student  projections  to  include: DoD  Component  student  requirements  (e.g.,  U.S.  Army  Element  at  DLIELC  ), International Military Students(IMS) projected to attend ELT, as well as Mobile Training Team (MTT) and Language Training Detachment (LTD) requirements abroad. 1.3.3.5.1.  Coordinates  with  the  MILDEPs  and  DSCA  on  ELT  requirements  to determine  how  DLIELC  and  the  LC  can  best  meet  training  needs  and  to  develop  a detailed requirements projection for programming and scheduling purposes. 1.3.3.5.2.  Provides the LC with the necessary requirements data to support the DELP PGL. 1.3.3.6.  Advocates  for  programming  measures  to  meet  the  ELT  needs  of  the  DoD Components IAW the SCETP. 1.3.3.7.  Provides  annual  budget  and  staffs  resource  requirements  for  the  full  range  of DLIELC needs and/or requirements to  the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) in the overall budget and execution plan. 1.3.3.8.  Oversees activity of the ELPWG, which, IAW the ELPWG charter, is comprised of key DELP stakeholders across OSD, the Joint community and the interagency arena. 1.3.3.8.1.  Serves  as  the  advisor  to  all  of  the  Services’  English  language  policy  and programming authorities and to the LC. 1.3.3.8.2.  Serves to resolve all ELT requirements issues and/or initiatives impacting ELT institutions in the U.S. and abroad. 1.3.3.9.  Delegates ELPWG chair responsibilities to the EA. 1.3.3.10.  Establishes the Executive Steering Committee (ESC) and delegates ESC chair responsibilities  to  the  EA,  IAW  AFPD  36-40,  which  guides  Language,  Regional Expertise, and Culture (LREC) programs, budget, and policy and AFI 36-2605, Air Force   6  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 Military  Personnel  Testing  System,  to  support  ELT  for  partner  nations  to  advance interoperability and security cooperation. 1.3.3.11.  Coordinates  on  issues  relating  to  DLIELC’s  U.S.  Army  Element,  which  is comprised of pre-basic recruits requiring ELT prior to entering the Army. 1.3.3.12.  Represents  the  EA,  when  required,  at  Security  Cooperation  Education  and Training  Working  Groups  (SCETWGs)  in  an  observer  capacity  and  delegates  EA SCETWG attendance to the LC, when necessary. 1.3.3.13.  Represents  the  EA,  when  required,  at  the  annual  DSCA-led  Security Assistance/Security  Cooperation  Training  Policy  meeting,  with  DLIELC  to  discuss DELP-related  issues  and  to  gain  awareness  of  security  assistance/security  cooperation initiatives that may impact the DELP. 1.3.3.14.  Oversees  ELT  prioritization  decisions  at  the  appropriate  “joint”  level  by coordinating with the joint services and as advised by DSCA. 1.3.3.15.  Ensures  all  formal  policy  decisions  on  DELP-  related  issues  flow  through  the EA and all issues, waivers, and notifications are properly staffed through the appropriate functional chains of command, per Figure 1.1. Figure 1.1.  DELP Communication Flow. 1.3.3.15.1.  Ensures  that  the  EA  will  courtesy  copy  the  LC  on  formal  DELP communications and positions. 1.3.3.15.2.1.  Considers  political  and  prioritization  guidance  provided  by  DSCA and MILDEPs in evaluating waiver requests. 1.3.3.15.2.2.  Coordinates all ELT waiver requests received from  DSCA through  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   7  the LC. Note: Coordination of ELT waivers and related correspondence from the EA to and from the LC will be completed in no more than 10 business days. The EA will provide DSCA with a formal response within the same time frame. 1.3.3.15.2.3.  Provides  coordinated  justification  to  DSCA  in  the  event  that  a waiver is rejected. 1.3.4.  Headquarters  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (HQ  AETC):  The  Commander, HQ AETC, as the LC, manages, operates, funds, and provides personnel for DLIELC.  The Commander,  HQ  AETC,  has  delegated  LC  responsibility  for  the  DELP  to  AETC International Training and Education (AETC/IA). 1.3.4.1.  Programs  through  the  corporate  structure  for  the  execution  of  DoD  ELT requirements, to include DLIELC operations. 1.3.4.2.  Identifies  to  the  EA  needed  resources  for  input  into  appropriate  financial exercises and the Program Objective Memorandum (POM). 1.3.4.3.  Provides a representative to the ELPWG. 1.3.4.4.  Nominates an individual for the position of DLIELC Commandant and identifies the  nominee  to  the  EA  for  staffing  through  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) and to the USD (P&R) for approval. 1.3.4.5.  Coordinates  with  EA  on  DELP  correspondence  including  ELT  and/or  ECL waiver requests IAW with Figure 1.1. 1.3.4.5.1.  Serves as the primary link between the EA and DLIELC. 1.3.4.5.2.  Reviews and staffs DLIELC issues requiring Higher Headquarters (HHQ) attention to the EA for coordination IAW Figure 1.1. 1.3.4.5.3.  Courtesy copies the EA on formal DELP communications and positions. 1.3.4.5.4.  Coordinates  ELT  guidance  and  procedures  for  security  policy  documents through the EA to the appropriate MILDEP. 1.3.4.6.  Maintains  a  master  list  of  DoD  English-language  programs;  requests  an assessment of new programs by DLIELC; and directs an appropriate level of oversight. 1.3.4.7.  Provides  the  DoD  SLA  and  the  EA  with  an  annual  assessment  of  the  resident and non- resident DoD ELT programs. 1.3.4.8.  Staffs SCETP ELT mission prioritization concerns via the EA to the PFS. 1.3.4.9.  Provides recommended prioritization of unfunded MILDEP requirements to the EA. 1.3.4.10.  Coordinates  with  the  EA  IAW  with  the  ELT  requirements  process  to  ensure valid ELT requirements are published in the AF PGL (See Chapter 4). 1.3.5.  Each  Military  Department  Headquarters  (MILDEP  HQ):  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary of  the  Army  for  Defense  Exports  &  Cooperation  (DASA  DE  &  C),  Navy  International Programs Office (NIPO), and Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA).   8  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 1.3.5.1.  Establishes  ECL/Oral  Proficiency  Interview  (OPI)  requirements  within  the Military Articles and Service List for applicable MILDEP-sponsored Follow-On Training (FOT). 1.3.5.2.  Manages IMS Training IAW the JSCET and SAMM, as applicable. 1.3.5.3.  Recommends  to  the  EA  changes  in  language  curricula  to  enhance  English proficiency of the IMS. 1.3.5.4.  Provides a representative to the ELPWG. 1.3.5.5.  Designates a focal point for ELT issues/requests by Service. In coordination with the EA, each MILDEP HQ focal point: 1.3.5.5.1.  Delegates  responsibilities  to  respective  MILDEP  Subject  Matter  Experts (SMEs) as appropriate. 1.3.5.5.2.  Validates/approves all Service-related requirements. 1.3.5.5.3.  Ensures proper staffing of requests for both resident and non-resident ELT programs IAW the JSCET and MILDEP HQ internal communication processes. 1.3.5.5.4.  Submits  requests  for  the  development  of  new  resident  and  non-resident ELT  programs  to  the  EA  and  provides  all  needed  resources  to  the  LC,  prior  to inclusion in the next programming lifecycle. 1.3.5.5.5.  Addresses ELT-related FOT issues, as required. 1.3.5.5.6.  Supplements  DLIELC  staffing,  as  necessary,  to  support  the  DELP  and/or Service programs IAW AETC staffing practices. 1.3.5.5.7.  Provides  funding  and  coordinates  with  countries  to  send  students  to DLIELC  ensuring  proper  oversight  of  students,  per  JSCET,  SAMM  and  AETC guidance. 1.3.5.5.8.  Coordinates  ELT  requirements  with  the  LC  prior  to  Letters  of  Offer  and Acceptance to ensure capacity exists at both DLIELC and FOT, as appropriate. 1.3.6.  Combatant Commands (CCMDs): 1.3.6.1.  Revalidates and redefines ELT support requirements in cooperation with the EA and  Joint  Staff  during  the  ELT  requirements  gathering  process  to  ensure  the  Theater Campaign Plan can be supported by DLIELC’s current and future  years’ resources.  In-theater non-resident ELT programs may feed into the following training pipelines: 1.3.6.1.1.  Formal training within the Continental United States (CONUS). 1.3.6.1.2.  Formal training program within theater. 1.3.6.1.3.  Formal training within third party country. 1.3.6.2.  Coordinates  with  DLIELC  to  build  sustainable  and  enduring  ELT  programs  in support  of  defined  priority  countries  and  coordinates  with  partner  security  assistance providing  nations  to  ensure  non-U.S.  provided  ELT  is  accounted  for  in  the  CCMD's security assistance capacity building (with respect to ELT). AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   9  1.3.6.3.  Report  ELT  mission  requirements  within  their  area  of  responsibility  in coordination with the Joint Staff upon request. 1.3.6.4.  Coordinate with the EA to obtain enduring ELT solutions in priority countries as an ongoing security cooperation tool to ensure furtherance of foreign policy objectives. 1.3.6.5.  Provide a representative to ELPWG, including relevant SMEs, as appropriate. 1.3.7.  Defense Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC): Teaches English as a  second  or  foreign  language  to  U.S.  military,  foreign  military,  and  civilian  personnel  to prepare  them  to  communicate  in  English  at  their  FOT  and/or  teach  English  in  their  host country;  provides  cultural  immersion  activities;  manages  the  deployment  of  non-resident English-language  specialists  to  partner  states  and  host  nations;  and  serves  as  the  approval authority  on  technical  sufficiency  of  contracted  ELT  programs,  in  support  of  the  National Security  Strategy  through  the  Defense  security  exchange  program  and  the  Defense  U.S. security cooperation program. 1.3.7.1.  Meets  English  language  education  and  operational  training  needs  of  the  DoD IAW DoDD 5160.41E, under the LC. 1.3.7.2.  Conducts and serves as the approval authority on technical sufficiency of ELT as part  of  the  DoD  SCETP,  which  includes  stable  and  predictable  execution  of  training provided  through:  International  Military  Education  and  Training  (IMET),  Foreign Military Sales (FMS), Foreign Military Financing (FMF), deployment of DLIELC MTTs and LTDs; and other approved programs within the CONUS and outside the continental United States (OCONUS), IAW the procedures outlined in the JSCET and as discussed in the SAMM. Note: Resident training refers to training conducted by DLIELC personnel at Joint  Base  San  Antonio  (JBSA)-Lackland.  Non-  resident  training  refers  to  training conducted  CONUS  or  OCONUS  with  DLIELC  oversight  or  instruction  at  a  location, other than JBSA-Lackland. 1.3.7.3.  Serves as the approval authority on technical sufficiency of all DoD-initiated or funded  ELT  programs  for  DoD  personnel,  who  are  non-native  speakers  of  English, regardless of Service, whether executed by DoD Civilian, Active Duty, Contract, or non-U.S. Partner Nation personnel. 1.3.7.4.  Coordinates  with  local  mission  partners  to  meet  student  requirements.  Service-specific  requirements  must  be  coordinated  through  the  PFS  and  EA  to  determine  the impact on capacity, mission and funding. 1.3.7.5.  Uses  DSAMS  or  other  Defense  Language  Steering  Committee  (DLSC)-approved forecasting tools to predict student load issues (based on existing or forecasted ELT  requirements)  and  identifies  known  or  anticipated  mission  shortfalls,  as  early  as possible. 1.3.7.6.  Performs student administrative support functions and conducts the Field Studies Program, as directed by the JSCET. 1.3.7.7.  Identifies  and  coordinates  existing  or  projected  ELT  shortfalls  through  the  LC via a staffing package that includes: 1.3.7.7.1.1.  Applicable  training  requirements,  clearly  identified,  with  as  much background information, as possible, on countries/programs impacted by the mission   10  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 shortfall. 1.3.7.7.1.2. Relevant information on current, possible or planned actions to alleviate specific mission shortfalls (e.g., FMS manpower, contractor support). 1.3.7.7.1.2.  Considerations  to  enable  the  best  and  most  effective  use  of  ELT manpower resources, as appropriate. 1.3.7.7.1.3.  Timeline for required prioritization decision that must be made NLT one quarter prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. 1.3.7.8.  Assists  in  the  development  of  effective,  efficient,  and  sustainable  English-language  program  capacity  to  meet  the  validated  requirements  of  the  U.S.  government, upon request. 1.3.7.9.  Conducts annual assessment of known DoD ELT official programs and provides assessments and new proposals to DoD SLA and EA on an annual basis, upon request. 1.3.7.9.1.  Provides  a  tailored  solution  to  the  specific  need  of  the  assessment,  while capitalizing on materials and lessons learned from DLIELC. 1.3.7.9.2.  Maintains  professional  contacts  with  civilian  ELT  programs  and  research in  the  language  acquisition  field  and  suggests  enhancements  and  synergies  between all DoD ELT programs. 1.3.7.9.3.  Provides technical advice and assesses the quality of proposed or existing ELT activities to other DoD programs with an ELT component, upon request. 1.3.7.10.  Identifies  to  the  EA,  through  the  LC,  needed  resources  for  input  into appropriate financial exercises and the POM. 1.3.7.10.1.  Staffs  support  and  resource  requirements  and  issues  to  the  EA,  through the LC, to HAF to the USD (P&R) IAW DoDD 5160.41E. 1.3.7.10.2.  Identifies  capacity  limitations  (to  the  EA  through  the  LC)  IAW  annual resources. 1.3.7.11.  Develops  and  implements  a  comprehensive  security  plan  that  includes  all aspects  of  test  design,  development,  distribution  and  administration  for  the  DELP  IAW DoDI 5160.71. 1.3.7.12.  Creates  and  distributes  English-language  proficiency  test  materials  and establishes,  maintains,  and  controls  access  to  Web-based  English-language  proficiency tests  for  DoD  test  control  centers  in  cooperation  with  Defense  Manpower  Data  Center (DMDC) IAW DoDI 5160.71 and DLIELC Instruction 1025.15, English Comprehension Level (ECL) Test Guidelines. 1.3.7.13.  Assists DoD Components to determine recommended ECL and OPI scores for entry into military occupational specialty training or education, upon request, IAW DoDI 5160.71. 1.3.7.14.  Administers the English Language OPI, as required, through the heads of DoD components IAW DoDI 5160.71. 1.3.7.15.  Coordinates  formal  ELT  positions  (waivers,  exceptions  to  policy,  formal review of documents, etc.), through the LC and EA to ensure all levels of command are AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   11  aware of key issues and concerns and to ensure resource owners have a voice; reference Figure 1.1. 1.3.7.16.  Serves  as  technical  advisor  to  the  DLSC  IAW  DoDD  5160.41E  and  is authorized  direct  communication  with  the  DoD  SLA  and  EA.  Note:  This  authorization does  not  alleviate  the  need  to  coordinate  communications  through  the  LC  chain  of command  or  formally  staff  programmatic  or  decisional  items  through  the  LC  and  EA, IAW Figure 1.1. 1.3.7.17.  Works  with  the  PFS  through  the  LC  and  EA  to  develop  a  Sustainable  Daily Student Load metric useful for strategic programming and capacity estimates. In addition, develops  scheduled  courses  and  sets  course  lengths  critical  for  users  to  schedule  and prioritize allocations for offered courses. 1.3.7.18.  Serves as a board member of the ESC and the ELPWG. 1.3.7.19.  Prepares  and  annually  updates  a  5-year  plan  (current  fiscal  year  plus  4)  and submits  it  through  the  LC  and  EA  to  the  USD  (P&R),  in  synchronization  with  the contents of the DoD Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture Strategic Plan. 1.3.7.20.  Provides an annual program review to the DoD SLA and the DLSC to include performance  of  DLIELC  during  the  previous  fiscal  year  and  plans  for  program  and budget execution for the upcoming fiscal year. 1.3.7.21.  Assists and provides EA data to satisfy HHQ-level reporting requirements. 1.3.7.22.  Approves performance standards for language laboratory systems provided by the  U.S.  Army  Communications-Electronics  Life  Cycle  Management  Command  (C-E LCMC). 1.3.7.23.  Publishes catalogs, instructions and handbooks, as part of its operations and in support of the DELP.  See Attachment 2 for a list of useful DLIELC publications. 1.3.7.24.  Maintains  a  robust  historian  function  for  programmatic  use  and  serves  as  a force  enabler  to  the  security  cooperation  mission  by  maintaining  relationships  between alumni and by facilitating engagement between DoD personnel and DLIELC graduates. 1.3.7.25.  Takes  action  to  minimize  Unauthorized  Absence  (UA)/Absent  Without  Leave (AWOL) as directed by current DSCA policy and IAW the SAMM. 1.3.7.26.  Maintains  working  relationship  with  802nd  Security  Forces  Squadron,  Air Force Office of Special Investigations and local Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel for the purposes of dealing with UA/AWOL IMS. 1.3.7.27.  Develops internal procedures for dealing with high risk of flight students, with a  focus  on  those  countries  designated  as  “Special  Interest  Alien”  by  the  Department  of Homeland Security. 1.3.7.28.  Ensures adherence to  U.S.  military standards, both  academic  and disciplinary, as determined by the DLIELC Commandant, IAW standards common to the IMS’ FOT. 1.3.7.29.  Develops  internal  procedures  for  returning  students  to  their  home  country  for failure to comply with academic and professional standards.   12  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 1.3.7.30.  Attends  annual  DSCA-led  Security  Assistance/Security  Cooperation  Training Policy meeting with the EA and/or LC to discuss policy issues, as related to the DELP, as well as DLIELC student projections. (T-0) AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   13  Chapter 2 ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING 2.1.  English Language Training for International Military Students (IMS).  (T-0) 2.1.1.  The  American  Language  Course  (ALC).  The  ALC  is  the  primary  English-language course in use at DLIELC.  The course is designed to meet the specific training objectives of the  military  English-language  learner.  The  ALC  consists  of  classroom  learning  and multimedia instruction.  The length of training is variable depending on FOT requirements.  The  ALC  is  divided  into  two  phases:  General  English  Training  (GET)  and  Specialized English Training (SET). 2.1.1.1.  GET. The GET phase is variable in length and is designed to train students with varying  English  proficiency  levels  to  achieve  their  target  ECL.  This  phase  develops listening,  speaking,  reading  and  writing  skills,  as  well  as  understanding  and  use  of functions, vocabulary and grammar. 2.1.1.2.  SET.  The  SET  phase  is  a  nine-week  course,  which  focuses  on  the  specific language  skills  and  terminology  students  will  need  to  enter  CONUS  technical  and professional  military training. The sponsoring Service determines if SET is  required for the student’s FOT. Students must achieve the ECL and OPI (if applicable) requirements for FOT, before entering SET. 2.1.2.  Field  Studies  Program  (FSP).  The  FSP  is  designed  to  assist  the  IMS  in  acquiring  a balanced understanding  of American society, institutions and ideals, in addition to assisting the students’ training and military experience, while in the U.S. 2.1.2.1.  Typical  activities  presented  include:  lectures,  visits  to  private  homes,  local industries, industrial and cultural exhibits, farms, schools, historical points of interest, and civic activities. 2.1.2.2.  IAW DoD  Instruction 5410.17,  United  States  Field  Studies  Program  (FSP)  for International  Military  and  Civilian  Students  and  Military-Sponsored  Visitors,  the program  is  conducted  with  explanations  and  open  discussions  of  the  following: Internationally-recognized  human institutions,  political processes,  judicial  system,  the  role  of  a  free  press  and  other  communication  media, minority programs, role of labor unions, U.S. economic system, educational institutions, health and human services, American family and community life, including religious and social  diversity,  environmental  protection,  public  and  social  welfare  and  international peace and security and law of war. rights,  U.S.  government 2.1.3.  FMS Contract Training. 2.1.3.1.  ELT  may  be  conducted  via  contracted  training  for  FMS  cases,  with  agreement between the PFS, the EA and the pertinent MILDEP(s). 2.1.3.2.  For  approved  requests,  DLIELC  serves  as  the  approval  authority  on  technical sufficiency of ELT and provides technical advice and assistance to education services and contracting officers during the contracting process and execution.   14  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 2.1.3.3.  Contract options will be considered for surge operations, unprogrammed resident campus requests and requests, which cannot be met with existing capabilities. 2.1.4.  English  Language  Instructor/Manager  Courses.  DLIELC  conducts  and  oversees courses for international military and civilian instructors, managers and staff of ELTPs. The courses include: 2.1.4.1.  Basic and advanced instructor training. 2.1.4.2.  Advanced language proficiency skills. 2.1.4.3.  Management of ELTPs and observer professional training. 2.2.  English Language Training for DoD Personnel.  (T-0) 2.2.1.  Resident Training of DoD Personnel. When a Service or DoD organization wishes to train  personnel  in  English  as  a  Second  Language  (ESL)  at  the  resident  campus  at  JBSA-Lackland, the request is sent through the EA to the LC for approval. 2.2.1.1.  Training  Requirements.  The  Service,  working  with  the  EA,  must  delineate  the projected length of the program, the number of students to be programmed annually and the  ELT  goals.  Respective  Service  publications  must  include  administrative  rules  for training and other needs unique to the particular Service. 2.2.1.2.  Funding.  By  request  and  approval  of  the  EA,  the  LC  will  program  all  needed resources  to  conduct  resident  training.   The  requesting  Service  must  resource requirements for that Service’s unique needs (such as student travel or personnel required for command and control). Additionally, the requesting Service resources all training and support  requirements,  until  all  needed  resources  are  approved through  DoD program/budget processes. 2.2.2.  Non-resident Training of DoD Personnel. When a Service or DoD organization wishes to train personnel in ESL at other than the resident campus at JBSA-Lackland, the request is submitted to the EA for review and approval. 2.2.2.1.  Non-resident  ELTPs  for  DoD  personnel  are  defined  as  ELT  and  skill sustainment  programs,  which  are  conducted  at  sites  other  than  the  DLIELC  resident campus  with  DLIELC  approval  authority  on  technical  sufficiency  of  ELTPs.    These programs are separate from ELT conducted under the SCETP. 2.2.2.2.  Nonresident  ELTPs  for  U.S.  military  personnel,  ROTC  cadets  or  foreign national military and civilian personnel working for/with the DoD help members further their training and professional growth.  Proficiency objectives of any such program must be  based  on  the  special  needs  of  the  sponsoring  command  and  are  dependent  upon  the time and resources available. 2.2.2.3.  Requests: 2.2.2.3.1.  Any agency of a Service or CCMD may request approval to establish and operate a non-resident ELTP. 2.2.2.3.2.  Requests will be made to the EA and include as a minimum: Elements of the  package  for  the  EA,  LC,  DLIELC,  and  any  relevant  stakeholders  to  assess  the breadth  of  curriculum/facility/instructor/testing  requirements  and  cost  (e.g.,  course AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   15  objectives,  desired  course  content,  minimum  ECL  for  enrollment,  target  ECL  for graduation, and annual student throughput). 2.2.3.  Support for Approved Non-resident Requests. 2.2.3.1.  Personnel.  Personnel  support  is  provided  on  a  reimbursable  basis  only.  The requesting agency will provide the necessary funds.  The following personnel services are provided by DLIELC to assist in the establishment or delivery of an ELTP: 2.2.3.1.1.  MTTs  may  consist  of  one  or  more,  deployable  ELT  subject  matter specialists  capable  of  addressing  the  requirements  of  a  SCO's  objectives  for  a  host country  ELTP.   The mission  of a MTT is  to  provide management  advice, guidance, assistance  and  training  in  the  establishment,  operation,  and  evaluation  of  the  ELTP, when  it  is  considered  more  expeditious,  practical,  and  cost  effective  to  bring  that assistance  to  the  field.  MTTs  can  be  for  any  length  of  time  (up  to  179  days).  However,  MTTs  deployed  to  a  combat  zone  are  not  required  to  apply  for  an administrative  extension  to  exceed  179  days  (as  outlined  in  the  JSCET).  Funds  for salary,  travel,  and  per  diem  of  the  team  must  be  provided  by  the  requester.    The DLIELC  Catalog  of  Material,  Courses  and  Support  contains  descriptions  of  MTT services. 2.2.3.1.2.  A LTD may consist of one or more ELT subject matter specialists, who are specifically trained to advise and support U.S. commanders in all matters relating to ELT. A LTD may be requested for assignment to the CONUS or OCONUS command on a Permanent Change of Station, without a Permanent Change of Assignment, for a tour  of  duty,  as  specified  by  the  Joint  Travel  Regulation.  DLIELC  can  provide  the LTD  to  the  user  through  a  MOA.  The  user  must  fund  the  cost  of  the  LTD.    Once established,  the  LTD  is  under  the  operational  control  of  the  U.S.  command  element sponsoring  the  LTD  and  maintains  liaison  with  DLIELC.    The  duties  that  can  be assigned to an LTD include director, manager, supervisor or instructor. 2.2.3.2.  Materials.  ALC  materials  are  available  from  DLIELC  for  use  in  non-resident ELTPs, at  sponsor cost,  until  resource for such materials  are  formally transferred in  the budget process. 2.3.  Support  for  In-Country  Programs  under  Security  Assistance.  Establishing  in-country ELTPs  under  Security  Assistance  supports  the  foreign  policy  objectives  of  the  U.S.  A  host country  ELTP  prepares  IMS  for  participation  in  Security  Assistance  and  related  programs  and assists  the  country  to  build  ELT  capacity  to  meet  partnership  goals  with  the  U.S.  DLIELC publishes pamphlets and catalogs to assist in planning and selecting service and course support. DLIELC will also consider non-U.S. provided ELT, in order to support this goal of establishing in-country ELTPs. 2.3.1.  Personnel.  DLIELC  English-language  specialists  and  managers  are  available  on  a reimbursable basis only.  The following personnel services may be requested from DLIELC to  assist  in  the  establishment  or  conduct  of  an  ELTP.  The  requesting  SCO  will  program necessary funds in the appropriate program. 2.3.1.1.  English  Language  Survey.  Deployable  teams  composed  of  one  or  more  ELT subject  matter  specialists  are  sent  to  assist  the  SCO  to  analyze  the  requirements  of  the host country ELTP and to define support requirements for DLIELC MTTs or LTDs.   16  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 2.3.1.2.  Requestors should program DLIELC MTTs and LTDs according to the JSCET, under AF security assistance team procedures. 2.3.2.  Materials. ALC materials are strongly recommended and are available from DLIELC for use in host country ELTPs.  Material may be acquired through normal security assistance procedures for the appropriate program. (T-0) 2.4.  Language  Laboratory  Equipment.  The  Department  of the Communications-Electronics  Life  Cycle  Management  Command  (C-E  LCMC),  Army  Materiel Command (AMC), is the focal point for all language laboratory systems requirements. All ELTP Laboratory purchases funded via IMET require the pre-approval of the DLIELC Commandant or his/her designated representative. the  Army, through 2.4.1.  The  designated  CCMD  and/or  SCO  Training  representative  initiates  the  requirement for  Army-procured  language  laboratory  equipment,  in  support  of  an  in-country  ELT program. 2.4.2.  For  IMET  funded  lab  requirements,  the  C-E  LCMC  English  Language  Laboratory Program  Manager,  in  coordination  with  SATFA  CPM,  ensures  all  requirements  supporting in-country ELT are vetted and validated by DLIELC (as DoD proponent), prior to  funding.  This is a mandatory requirement.  Labs funded through FMS coming from USASAC do not require approval from DLIELC, prior to funding 2.4.3.  Laboratory system procurement to support the SCETP is outlined in the JSCET. (T-0) AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   17  Chapter 3 ENGLISH LANGUAGE TESTING 3.1.  English Language Testing.  (T-0) 3.1.1.  Measuring English Language Proficiency.  The DLIELC uses three standardized tests to assess an individual's proficiency in the English language. 3.1.1.1.  ECL  Test.  The  ECL  test  was  designed  to  predict  success  at  FOT  by  assessing English reading and listening skills on a 100-point scale. Because this test is a controlled item,  SCOs  or  local  U.S.  commanders  must  appoint  a  test  control  officer  to  obtain  the ECL  test  from  DLIELC  and  administer  it  IAW  the  JSCET  and  DLIELC  Instruction 1025.15 and in cooperation with the DMDC for web-based testing. The ECL test is used to determine if a student meets the language requirements for entry into resident DLIELC ELT  or  entry  into  Service  technical  and  professional  training  courses  or  exercises. Thorough testing is key to ensuring accurate programming at DLIELC. 3.1.1.2.  OPI.  The  OPI  measures  interactive  listening  and  speaking  proficiency  through oral interviews conducted face-to-face or telephonically by DLIELC- certified OPI raters, according to the current DLIELC Instruction 1025.9.  The OPI rating is used to determine if a student meets the requirements for entry into specified courses or exercises (usually with a safety component). Skill levels range from 0 (No Proficiency) to  5 (Functionally Native  Proficiency),  based  on  the  Interagency  Language  Roundtable  (ILR)  Language Skill Level descriptions. Note: The Oral Proficiency Skills for Aviation Course is offered for  aviation  students,  who  have  met  the  ECL  requirement,  but  have  not  achieved  the requisite OPI ratings. 3.1.1.3.  English  Language  Proficiency  Test  (ELPT).  The  ELPT  measures  listening, speaking, reading and writing skills IAW the ILR.  ELPT administration can be requested by U.S. military personnel involved in ELT for international military personnel. The test is a controlled item and is therefore administered, according to DLIELC guidelines. 3.1.2.  MILDEP and CCMD leadership should work with SCOs to replace paper-based ECL testing  with  DMDC-delivered  (online)  ECL  testing,  wherever  adequate  IT  and  other infrastructure is available.  Additional information on the web-based testing program will be provided to the CCMDs for their planning efforts. 3.1.3.  For  additional  policy  regarding  ELT,  including  country  exemptions  and  test  score waiver  guidance,  refer  to  the,  “Country  Exemption  Lists  for  English  Comprehension  Level, Test of English as a Foreign Language and Oral Proficiency Interview” document provided annually by DSCA.   18  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 Chapter 4 REQUIREMENTS AND CAPACITY REVIEWS  4.1.  Resident  English  Language  Training  Requirements.  Resident  ELT  refers  to  training conducted at DLIELC, JBSA-Lackland. 4.1.1.  ELT  requirements  are  gathered  to  meet  POM  milestones  and  to  finalize  training execution to meet programming and operational requirements. 4.1.1.1.  MILDEP SMEs compile ELT requirements for their respective service. 4.1.1.2.  Naval  Education  and  Training  Security  Assistance  Field  Activity  provides  all maritime  requirements,  which  include  U.S.  Navy,  U.S.  Marine  Corps  and  U.S.  Coast Guard requirements. 4.1.1.3.  In  addition  to  Army  IMS  requirements,  DASA  DE  &  C  will  consolidate projected  Army  non-IMS  (U.S.  Army  Element  at  DLIELC)  requirements  from  the Human  Resources  Command,  Accessions  Management  Branch  (or  its  other  appropriate offices,  as  may  be  determined),  to  include  the  number  of  students  by  quarter  for  the current  and  budget  year  and  annually,  through  the  Future  Years  Defense  Program (FYDP). 4.1.1.4.  Air Force Security Assistance Training Squadron provides AF requirements. 4.1.2.  Requirements are formatted to include student projections for the budget year and the next four years, IAW the FYDP. 4.1.3.  Data  details  required,  at  a  minimum,  include:  number  of  students  and  training  track lines,  country,  program,  funding  type  (i.e.  IMET,  FMS,  1206,  Combating  Terrorism Fellowship  Program),  course  of  instruction  required,  equipment  or  program  supported  and baseline programs for continuing ELT programs (such as instructor training). (T-0) 4.2.  Resident English Language Training Requirements Process.  (T-0) 4.2.1.  The EA manages the process and initiates annual ELT requirements data call through the  appropriate  MILDEP  HQ  IAW  with  section  4.1.  Note:  ELT  Requirements  that  emerge during  mid-fiscal  year  will  be  processed  IAW  AFI  36-2616,  Technical  Training Requirements Programs. 4.2.2.  MILDEP  SMEs  provide  updated  ELT  requirement  projections  to  MILDEP  HQs  for validation via the DSAMS ELT application. 4.2.3.  MILDEP  HQs  review  requirements  for  completeness  and  task  for  additional information. 4.2.4.  MILDEP  HQs  certify  and  submit  requirements  through  DSAMS  under  signature  by General Officer/ Flag Officer/ Senior Executive Service to the PFS and send soft copy of the report to the EA. 4.2.5.  PFS  reviews  for  completeness  and  duplications,  based  on  its  data  sources,  and validates the highest probability forecast. AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   19  4.2.6.  The Director of DSCA signs the validation memo, which includes a summary of the validated student projections for the budget year and the next five years, IAW the FYDP, for each service and the U.S. Army Element at DLIELC, and then forwards the memo to the EA. 4.2.7.  AF/A1D  will  compare  DSAMS  requirements  with  historical  utilization  to  validate user  requirements.    The  utilization  comparison  should  inform  development  of  the  ELT requirements memo.  AETC will assess the projected requirements against DLIELC capacity and  advise  EA  of  impacts.    AF/A1D  then  signs  the  ELT  requirements  memo  and  EA distributes  the  memo  and  coordination  package  to  the  AETC  Intelligence,  Operations,  and Nuclear Integration Directorate (AETC/A2/3/10) for use in POM and budget justification and for  inclusion  in  the  DELP  PGL.  AETC  will  program  for  requirements  to  meet  resident requirements and will advise EA of impacts. 4.2.8.  MILDEP  SMEs  formally  review  ELT  requirements  annually  at  the  ELPWG  and conduct informal ELT status updates. 4.2.9.  ELPWG  chair  presents  any  annual  ELT  requirement  issues  at  the  ESC  for  oversight purposes. 4.3.  Non-resident  English  Language  Training  Requirements.  Non-resident  ELT  refers  to MTTs, LTDs and MILDEP satellite organizations away from DLIELC. 4.3.1.1.  EA initiates data call through Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) J1 to the CCMDs annually. 4.3.1.2.  CCMDs  provide  ELT  requirements  projections  to  JCS  J1,  specifying  location, student load and FMS case identifiers, when appropriate, to meet POM milestones in the form of annual program requirements. 4.3.1.3.  JCS J1 gathers, organizes and consolidates ELT requirements from CCMD and transmits to EA. 4.3.1.4.  ELPWG chair presents  annual non-resident ELT requirement issues at ESC for oversight purposes and notifies ESC of capability to meet non-resident requests regarding constraints on resident capability. 4.3.1.5.  EA  presents  annual  ELT  requirements  issues  at  the  DLSC  for  oversight purposes. 4.3.1.6.  EA signs memo to LC to inform programming cycle. 4.3.1.7.  LC will program for requirements to meet non-resident requests and will advise EA of impact on resident programs, resulting from support of non-resident requests. (T-0) 4.4.  Capacity Reviews.  (T-0) 4.4.1.  The  EA  and  MILDEP  SMEs  review  quarterly  projections  for  the  current  and  future budget  years and provide updates at each ELPWG on student quota trends that may require DELP space adjustments or prioritization efforts. 4.4.1.1.  The  LC  reviews  capacity  issues  and  develops  Courses  of  Action  (COAs);  if unresolved,  the  LC  refers  to  the  EA  for  consideration  and  coordination  with  OUSD (P&R), PFS and the DoD SLA.   20  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 4.4.1.2.  As required, during the programming process, the LC and EA provide the PFS, OUSD (P&R) and the DoD SLA with POM submission to advocate on behalf of the EA in budget deliberations with OUSD Comptroller. 4.4.2.  In  the  event  resident  ELT  requirements  exceed  DLIELC  capacity,  DELP  resources must be properly aligned and prioritized to support the resident and/or non-resident and U.S. training missions. 4.4.2.1.  The  LC  identifies  capacity  issues  and  reports  capacity  issues  to  the  EA  during quarterly and annual requirement process reviews. 4.4.2.2.  EA provides information on capacity limitation(s), including available COAs to PFS for guidance, as needed and/or appropriate. 4.4.2.3.  PFS reviews capacity limitations and COAs and consults with OUSD Policy and State Department Political Military Bureau, as needed.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   21  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent, September 3, 2002 DoDD 5160.41E, Defense Language Program (DLP), October 21, 2005 DoDI 5160.70, Management of Department of Defense (DoD) Language and Regional Proficiency Capabilities, June 12, 2007 DoDI 5160.71, DoD Language Testing Program, January 26, 2009 DoDI 5410.17, United States Field Studies Program (FSP) for International Military and Civilian Students and Military-Sponsored Visitors, September 15, 2006 DSCA Manual 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management Manual (SAMM), 16 August 2012 AFPD 36-40, Air Force Language, Region and Culture Program, October 16, 2012 AFI 16–105/AR 12-15/SECNAVINST 4950.4B, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training (JSCET), January 3, 2011 AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, 24 September 2008 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 DLIELC Instruction 1025.15, English Comprehension Level (ECL) Test Guidelines, May 25, 2011 DLIELC Instruction 1025.9, Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) Program Guidelines, October 13, 2011 Abbreviations and Acronyms AETC—Air Education and Training Command AFB—Air Force Base AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training Squadron ALC—American Language Course AMC—Army Materiel Command AWOL—Absent Without Leave C- E LCMC—Communications-Electronics Life Cycle Management Command CLO—Country Liaison Officer COA—Course of Action CCMD—Combatant Command CONUS—Continental United States CPM—Country Program Manager   22  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 DASA DE & C—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Defense Exports & Cooperation DELP—Defense English Language Program DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center DSAMS—Defense Security Assistance Management System DLIELC—Defense Language Institute English Language Center DLP—Defense Language Program DLSC—Defense Language Steering Committee DLNSEO—Defense Language and National Security Education Office DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency EA—Executive Agent ECL—English Comprehension Level ELPWG—English Language Program Working Group ELT—English Language Training ELTP—English Language Training Program ESC—Executive Steering Committee ESL—English as a Second language FMF—Foreign Military Financing FMS—Foreign Military Sales FOT—Follow-on Training FSP—Field Studies Program FYDP—Future Years Defense Program GET—General English Training HAF—Headquarters Air Force HHQ—Higher Headquarters HQ—Headquarters IAW—In Accordance With ICE—Immigration and Customs Enforcement ILR—Interagency Language Roundtable IMET—International Military Education and Training AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   23  IMS—International Military Student(s) JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff JSCET—Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training LC—Lead Command LREC—Language, Regional Expertise and Culture LTD—Language Training Detachment MASL—Military Articles and Service List MOA—Memorandum of Agreement MILDEP—Military Department MTT—Mobile Training Team Navy IPO—Navy International Programs Office NETSAFA—Naval Education and Training Security Assistance Field Activity OCONUS—outside the continental United States OPI—Oral Proficiency Interview OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense OUSD—Office of the Under Secretary of Defense OSI—Office of Special Investigations PFS—Primary Functional Sponsor POM—Program Objective Memorandum SAF/IA—Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs SATFA—Security Assistance Training Field Activity SCETP—Security Cooperation Education and Training Program SCETWG—Security Cooperation Education and Training Working Group SCO—Security Cooperation Organization/Officer SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SET—Specialized English Training SFS—Security Forces Squadron SLA—Senior Language Authority SME—Subject Matter Expert UA—Unauthorized Absence USCG—United States Coast Guard USD (P&R)— Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness)   24  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 USMC—United States Marine Corps USMIL—United States Military Terms Defense English Language Program (DELP)— All DoD ELTPs or courses conducted for U.S. or international military or civilian personnel including those aspects of ELTPs of other nations in which DoD personnel take part under the provisions of the IMET, FMS and FMF programs. Defense Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC)— DLIELC is a DoD-wide mission to support the DELP. It is located at Lackland Air Force Base TX 78236-5259. Defense  Security  Assistance  Management  System— DSAMS is  the system that contains the training  module  that  the  services  use  to  load  all  of  the  international  training  requirements  and maintain records on all of the international students that have received DoD training. Executive Agent (EA)— The Secretary of the Air Force is the EA for the DLIELC. The action office is HQ AF/A1DV-LREC. Foreign  Military  Sales  (FMS)—  That  portion  of  U.S.  security  assistance  authorized  by  the Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1961,  as  amended,  and  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act  of  1976,  as amended,  and  conducted  on  the  basis  of  formal  contracts  or  agreements  between  the  U.S. Government and an authorized recipient government or international organization. FMS includes government-to-government  sales  of  defense  articles  or  defense  services,  from  DoD  stocks  or through purchase under DoD-managed contracts, regardless of the source of financing. International  Military  Education  and  Training  (IMET)—  That  portion  of  the  U.S.  security cooperation  program  that  furnishes  training  to  selected  foreign  military  and  defense  associated civilian personnel on a grant-aid basis.  Training is provided at U.S. military facilities and with the U.S. Armed Forces in the United States and overseas, and by use of mobile training teams. Training  also  may  be  provided  by  contract  technicians,  contractors  (including  instruction  at civilian  institutions),  or  by  correspondence  courses.    The  IMET  Program  is  authorized  by  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended. Language  Training  Detachment  (LTD)—  An  activity  of  the  DLIELC  consisting  of  one  or more  English  language  training  specialists  deployed  to  give  on-site  English  language  training support on a permanent change of station (PCS), without permanent change of assignment (PCA) basis. Mobile  Training  Team  (MTT)—  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  one  or  more  English language training specialists deployed to give on-site English language training support services on a temporary duty basis. Oral  Proficiency  Interview  (OPI)— The method used to determine an individual's interactive listening and speaking proficiency. Security Cooperation Education and Training Program (SCETP)— For the purpose of this regulation, a group of programs authorized by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, and  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act  of  1976,  as  amended,  or  other  related  statutes  by  which  the United States gives military training by grant, credit or cash sales to further national policies and objectives.  Also included in this definition are those programs authorized under Title 10 U.S.C. AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015   25  and  listed  in  Table  C10.T.1  of  the  Security  Assistance  Management  Manual  (DSCA Manual5105.38-M) that authorize training of international students. Service— For the purpose of this regulation, “Service” can refer to the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Coast Guard or any activity within these branches.    26  AFI36-4003  14 JANUARY 2015 Attachment 2 USEFUL ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING PUBLICATIONS A2.1.  1.  DLIELC  Catalog  of  Materials,  Courses  and  Support.  This  catalog  lists  information and  prices  for  the  ALC  materials  available  for  purchase  through  regular  support  channels.  Resident  courses  and  courses  available  by  MTT  are  described,  along  with  host  country  and nonresident support services provided by DLIELC language specialists. A2.2.  DLIELC  English  Language  Training  Support  for  Security  Cooperation  Organizations. This  handbook  provides  detailed  information  pertaining  to  programming  international  military students for training at DLIELC and for obtaining services and materials in support of a foreign country’s ELTP. A2.3.  DLIELC  Instruction  1025.7,  Planning  and  Programming  Security  Assistance  English Language  Training.    This  instruction  provides  guidance  and  rules  for  the  planning  and programming of international personnel at the DLIELC resident campus. A2.4.  DLIELC  Instruction  1025.9,  Management  of  the  DLIELC  Oral  Proficiency  Interview (OPI)  Program.    This  regulation  establishes  guidelines  for  managing  the  OPI  program  and provides guidance to SCOs on OPI scheduling and administration procedures. A2.5.  DLIELC Instruction 1025.15, English Comprehension Level (ECL) Test Guidelines.  This regulation  provides  instructions  for  the  SCO  and  the  ECL  Test  Control  Officer  (TCO).    It includes  details  on  ECL  testing  kits,  TCO  appointments  and  procedures  for  ECL  test administration. A2.6.  Ordering Publications. Order DLIELC publications from DLIELC/LESL, 2235 Andrews Avenue, Lackland AFB TX 78236-5259 or go to the DLIELC website: www.dlielc.edu.  