BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION  35-102 4 MAY 2016 Incorporating Change 1, 7 JUNE 2017 Public Affairs SECURITY AND POLICY REVIEW PROCESS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  SAF/PA  Supersedes:  AFI 35-102, 20 Oct 2009 Certified by: SAF/PA  (Col Robert Ricker) Pages: 16    This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  35-1,  Public  Affairs Management.  It provides guidance for the release of accurate information that does not contain classified  material  and  does  not  conflict  with  established  Air  Force,  Department  of  Defense (DoD),  or  U.S.  Government  policy.    It  also  implements  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DoD Information for Public Release.  Read this instruction with Joint  Publication  3-61,  Public  Affairs.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation for Change of Publication and route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate  functional’  s  chain  of  command.    This  instruction  also  applies  to  the  Air  Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air National Guard unless specifically noted. The authorities to  waive  wing/unit-level  requirements  are  identified  with  a  tier  number  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”) following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1, for a description of the authorities associated with tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  tier  waiver  approval  authority  or  to SAF/PA for non-tiered compliance items.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN) 33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). 2 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  interim  change  revises  AFI  35-102  by  (1)  adds  “Refer  to  AFI35-104  for  authorized representative  requirement”  to  section  3.2.,  (2)  changing  the  requirement  for  AU  to  perform security and policy review for Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) in section 5.3, (3) edit last sentence in 9.6 to read “The registration process is covered under AFI 35-107”. 1.  Purpose  and  Objectives  of  Security  and  Policy  Review.  Security  and  policy  review represents  an  ongoing  effort  to  inform  and  increase  public  understanding  of  the  mission, operations,  and  programs  of  the  Air  Force.  The  purpose  of  the  security  review  is  to  protect classified information, controlled unclassified sensitive information, or unclassified information that  may  individually  or  in  aggregate  lead  to  an  unauthorized  disclosure  or  controlled  unclassified  information  which  can      adversely  impact  national  and    operational  security.  The purpose of the policy review is to ensure no conflict exists with established AF, DoD, or other U.S. Government agency policies. The objective of the Security and Policy review process is to ensure  the  maximum  clearance  of  information  in  minimum  time.    The  Public  Affairs  Officer (PAO) at  the lowest  level  where competent  authority exists oversees all  aspects  of the security and policy review of information submitted. 1.1.  Public  Affairs  Officers  should  coordinate  with  Operations  Security  Officers  and  any other person engaged in security of classified or controlled unclassified information to ensure security and policy reviews are properly processed for release. 1.2.  Public  Affairs  Officers  who  suspect  unauthorized  disclosures  of  classified  and controlled  unclassified  information  will  report  the  occurrence  to  the  Wing  Information Protection Office in accordance with AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program. (T-1) 2.  General Guidelines. 2.1.  Maximum Disclosure. The Air Force is committed and supports the policy of maximum public disclosure about  Air Force operations and activities. Air Force PA offices will clear, without  delay,  the  maximum  amount  of  information  at  the  lowest  competent  and  review level. (T-0) 2.2.  Clearance  Authority.  Authority  and  direction  for  the  conduct  of  security  and  policy review is derived from Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, and DoDI 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DoD Information for Public Release. 2.2.1.  Clearance versus Release.  The security and policy review process determines the suitability  for  public  release  of  information.    A  clearance  does  not  grant  an  approval  to release  the  information.    Release  of  information  is  the  decision  of  the  originator  of  the document,  often  reached  through  the  coordination  with  his  or  her  chain  of  command. While  the  security  portion  of  the  security  and  policy  process  identifies  classified  or sensitive information, it does not classify or declassify information. 2.2.2.  Air Force material submitted for review may be released to the public domain only after  it  has  been  reviewed  for  security  and  policy  consistency  and  cleared  by  an appropriate authority in  Public Affairs. AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 3 2.2.3.  Originators must not  release copies of the material  outside official  channels  until the security and policy review authority determines the document is cleared for the public domain.   (T-0)  To protect  against inadvertent  public release, distribution of documents under review should be limited until the review is complete. 2.2.4.  Disclosure  of  administrative  errors,  differences  of  opinions,  or  ineptitude  are  not grounds for a denial of public release. 2.2.5.  Air  Force  offices  and  functional  elements  are  expected  to  render  expert  opinion during the review process and must provide prompt response, guidance, and assistance to the security and policy review authority. (T-2) 2.2.6.  Air Force personnel should make no commitments, including date of delivery, or to  furnish  abstracts  or  manuscripts  to  non-military  publications  until  cleared  through security and policy review channels. 2.2.7.  PA  offices  should  be  active  in  educating  Airmen  about  information  that  must  be cleared,  regardless  of  the  medium  that  is  used.    Often,  commanders  must  approve information for release about the installation’s activities.  (T-2) 3.  Major  Commands  (MAJCOM),  Field  Operating  Agencies,  Direct  Reporting  Units (DRU),  and  wing-level  organizations.  Clearance  authority  should  be  delegated  to  the  Public Affairs organization at the lowest echelon qualified to evaluate the contents and implications of the subject. 3.1.  The  Public  Affairs  organization  with  security  and  policy  review  authority  will  clear unclassified  information  of  local  or  regional  interest.  (T-1)    This  includes  speeches, presentations, papers, multimedia and visual information material, and information proposed for release to a publicly accessible web site with the exception of Air Force publications. PA public  web  site  management  guidance  can  be  found  in  AFI  35-107,  Public  Web Communications. 3.2.  The  local  commander  or  designated  representative  clears  news  or  photos  of  national interest.  Refer to AFI 35-104 for authorized representative requirement. 4.  Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC).  The AFIMSC/PA office, under the direction of AFMC, will serve as the single intermediate headquarters for information originating  at  the  wing-level  that  requires  higher  headquarters  review  by  all  major  commands except Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard. 4.1.  Active-duty  wing-level  PA  offices  that  require  higher  echelon  security  and  policy review of information proposed for release will forward the material to AFIMSC/PA.  (T-2) 4.2.  AFIMSC/PA will develop and distribute guidance to the MAJCOM/PA offices, to share with  their  subordinate  organizations,  to  detail  the  process  for  submitting  cases  for  Security and  Policy  Review  to  AFIMSC.  For  questions,  contact  AFIMSC/PA  at  DSN  969-1668/Commercial 210-395-1668. 4.3.  AFIMSC/PA  will  coordinate  clearance  with  the  appropriate  MAJCOMs,  or  AFIMSC subject matter experts, as required and forward material to SAF/PA that cannot be cleared at the intermediate level. 4 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 5.  What  Must  Be  Submitted.  Department  of  Defense  Directive  5230.09,  Clearance  of  DoD Information for Public Release, requires information relating to the plans, policies, programs, or operations  of  DoD  or  the  U.S.  Government  proposed  for  public  release  is  sent  through  PA channels  to  the  next  echelon  appropriate  for  review.    Whether  information  is  prepared  as  an official  release  or  a  personal  enterprise,  it  must  be  reviewed  and  cleared  before  release.    (T-0) Originators  must  ensure  disclaimers  accompany  all  documents  they  authorize  in  a  private capacity.  (T-0) An appropriate disclaimer is: “The views expressed are those of the author and do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  official  policy  or  position  of  the  Air  Force,  the  Department  of Defense, or the U.S. Government.” 5.1.  All  Air  Force  military  and  civilian  personnel,  including  Air  National  Guard  and  Air Force  Reserve  personnel  on  active  duty,  who  release  material  related  to  their  active-duty assignment, retired military members, and former Air Force civilian employees will use this review  process  to  ensure  DoD-related  information  released  to  the  public  is  consistent  with their requirement to safeguard classified material.  (T-0) 5.1.1.  Commander/Directors  will  ensure  all  active  duty  military,  civilian,  and contractor personnel assigned to their organization are briefed on this requirement. (T-1) 5.2.  Contractors.    Contractors  must  submit  material  proposed  for  public  release  for  review according to valid contract requirements as specified in Defense Department (DD) Form 254, Department  of  Defense  Contract  Security  Classification  Specification,  DoD  5220.22-R, Industrial  Security  Regulation,  and  DoD  5220.22-M,  National  Industrial  Security  Program Operating Manual.  (T-0) 5.3.  DoD  School  Policy.    DoD  gives  its  personnel  in  its  school  environments  the  widest latitude  to  express  their  views.  To  ensure  a  climate  of  academic  freedom  and  to  encourage intellectual expression, students and faculty members of an academy, college, university, or DoD  school  are  not  required  to  submit  papers  or  material  that  are  prepared  in  response  to academic  requirements  and  not  intended  for  release  outside  the  academic  institution.  Information proposed for public release or made available in libraries or databases or on web sites to which the public has access shall be submitted for review. 6.  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  Office  of  Public  Affairs  (SAF/PA)  and/or  Defense  Office  of Prepublication and Security Review (DOPSR) Clearances.  Originators must receive SAF/PA or DOPSR approval for the following types of material requesting public release: (T-0) 6.1.  Originates,  or  is  proposed  for  release,  in  the  Washington  D.C.  metropolitan  area.  This policy  does  not  apply  to  technical  papers  intended  for  presentation  at  conferences  or meetings  that  do  not  fall  under  other  categories  of  required  submission.  When  in  doubt, submit. 6.2.  Is, or has the potential to become, an item of national or international interest.  All three- and  four-star  general  officers  and  their  civilian  equivalents’  written  and  oral  public presentations are considered to be “of national and international interest.” 6.3.  References President and Secretary of Defense authority. 6.4.  Affects national security policy or foreign relations. AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 5 6.5.  Concerns  subjects  of  potential  controversy  among  DoD  components  or  with  other Federal agencies. 6.6.  Is information that is presented by a DoD employee who, by virtue of rank, position, or expertise,  would  be  considered  an  official  DoD  spokesperson.    This  information  requires DOPSR  approval.    All  three-  and  four-star  generals  and  their  civilian  equivalents  are considered  DoD  representatives.    Information  presented  by  general  officers  and  civilian equivalents that contains only information that has been previously cleared or released by the Air  Force,  such  as  Air  Force  messages  or  restatements  of  the  Air  Force  policies,  may  be cleared locally. 6.7.  Contains  technical  data,  including  data  developed  under  contract  or  independently developed and controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITARs) that may be militarily critical and subject to limited , but on which a distribution determination has not been made. 6.8.  New weapons or weapon systems, significant modifications or improvements to existing weapons or weapon systems, equipment, or techniques. 6.9.  Military operations, significant exercises, and operations security. 6.10.  Military activities or applications in space, nuclear weapons, including weapon-effects research; chemical and biological warfare issues; biological and toxin research; high-energy lasers and particle beam technology; and arms control treaty implementation. 6.11.  Any other contemporary topic that is designated by DOPSR. 7.  Information Not Requiring Review. 7.1.  Information not involving DoD operations or personnel. 7.2.  Personal  letters  to  the  editor,  book  or  theatrical  reviews  when  expressing  a  personal opinion, and works of fiction (short stories, novels, and plays) that are not derived from DoD experience.  However,  such  information  must  not  imply  Air  Force  or  DoD  sanction.  When there is doubt as to the sensitivity of the information, submit it for review. 7.3.  Air Force Publications.  Air Force publications are not submitted for security and policy review.  It is incumbent upon the OPR to ensure the content is unclassified and suitable for public  release  and  posting  to  a  public  web  site.    Detailed  instructions  for  all  facets  of publications  and  forms  management  can  be  found  in  AFI  33-360,  Publication  and  Forms Management. 8.  What  Cannot  Be  Written  About.  Air  Force  military  and  civilian  personnel  may  write articles for open publication, unless such activity: 8.1.  Conflicts  with  the  public  receiving  prompt  and  complete  information  on  government activities through the media. 8.2.  Violates laws or policies. 8.3.  Violates ethical standards or does not comply with DoDD 5500.7, Standards of Conduct and DoD 5500.07-R, The Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), including Changes 1-7.” 8.4.  Uses official DoD information generally not available to the public and that would not be released under DoD 5400.7-R, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program. 6 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 9.  Submitting  Material  for  Review.  For  planning  purposes,  allow  at  least  10  workdays  for SAF/PA-level  review  and  clearance  and  at  least  20  workdays  for  DOPSR  and  other  Federal agency review and clearance.  The length, complexity, and content shall determine the number of reviewing  Agencies  and,  consequently,  the  time  required  for  the  complete  review  process. SAF/PA requires five paper copies of the full and final text of all materials for Air Force-level review  and  clearance.  Drafts,  notes,  outlines,  briefing  charts,  etc.,  may  not  be  submitted  as  a substitute for a complete text. If a submission requires DOPSR clearance, SAF/PA will submit it. 9.1.  Electronic  Submittal.    Do  not  submit  items  for  clearance  via  e-mail  to  SAF/PA (Headquarters  Air  Force).    This  system  does  not  permit  for  official  use  only  (FOUO) information  review  and  often  sensitive/classified  information  is  discovered  during  the security and policy review process. The only exception will be made for news releases, and general  officer and civilian equivalent  speeches and presentations.  Please submit the S&PR request a minimum of 3 workdays before event. 9.1.1.  To expedite review and clearance, each package submitted must include a memo containing: (T-1) 9.1.1.1.  Name, title, and organization of originating unit, author, or speaker. 9.1.1.2.  Title of article or presentation. 9.1.1.3.  Statement on where, when, and how the information is to be released and the sponsoring organization, if appropriate. 9.1.1.4.  Required suspense date for release determination. If suspense date is earlier than date of presentation or publication, give reason. 9.1.1.5.  Statement  that  the  information  has  been  reviewed  at  the  appropriate  lower level and is recommended for public release. 9.1.1.6.  Signed  or  initialed  notation  by  author  or  speaker  indicating  approval  of  the text. 9.1.1.7.  When  applicable,  include  a  statement  on  technical  material  that  outlines restrictions and militarily critical technologies as well as a statement that current Air Force and DOD policies have been considered.”  Provide all relevant comments from field unit technical coordinators and attach contractor transmittal letter, if it contains pertinent data. 9.2.  Technical Materials.  For technical papers, include an abstract in layman’s terms and, if appropriate,  tell  why  releasing  the  information  is  important  to  DoD.  An  abstract  to  be published in advance also must be reviewed for clearance.  Clearance of an abstract does not fulfill  the  requirement  to  submit  the  full  text  for  clearance  before  its  publication.  If  an abstract is cleared in advance, always state the previously cleared abstract case number when requesting review of the full text. 9.3.  Classified references are not recommended because they provide intelligence “shopping lists” and are not available to the general public. 9.4.  Generally,  previously  cleared  information  does  not  need  to  be  submitted  for  review unless  it  contains  substantial  changes  or  it  is  used  in  conjunction  with  other  unclassified AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 7 material. Previously cleared unclassified information may inadvertently be combined in such a manner that together, the new product becomes classified or raises policy concerns. 9.5.  Speeches  and  Presentations.  Speeches  and  presentations  can  be  submitted  in  bullet format if the essence of the information is apparent to the reviewer. The clearance of bullet-format material will, however, cover only that information presented for review and does not include  extemporaneous  remarks  made  during  the  presentation.  Full  text  and  proposed narrative is strongly recommended. 9.6.  Website Publication. Information intended for placement on websites or other publicly accessible  computer  servers  that  are  available  to  anyone  requires  review  and  clearance  for public release. Review and clearance for public release is not required for information to be placed  on  DoD  controlled  websites  or  computer  servers  that  restrict  access  to  authorized users. Ensure websites are registered. The registration process is covered under AFI 35-107. 10.  Recommended  Program  Guidelines.  PA  offices  should  appoint  one  security  and  policy review  authority  to  operate  the  program.  PA  offices  should  keep  potential  submitters  informed about  review  requirements  and  procedures  and  establish  working  relationships  with  staff agencies  assisting  in  the  review  process.  Coordinators  must  understand  thoroughly  the  purpose of and their responsibility for security and policy review.  (T-1) 10.1.  The following are recommended program guidelines at an installation: 10.1.1.  Keep  a  status  log  on  information  being  reviewed.  The  system  of  choice  is  the Public  Affairs  Information  Release  System  (PAIRS).    SAF/PA  and  AFIMSC/PA  can provide access, guidance and training on PAIRS. 10.1.2.  Maintain  an  effective  suspense  system.    Allow  10  workdays  for  normal coordination  of  cases  through  the  organization.  Coordination  time  increases  if  material must  be  elevated  to  AFIMSC,  SAF/PA  or  DOPSR  for  processing.  Use  a  standardized form or format to transmit cases to coordinating agencies. 10.1.3.  Do  not  release  cases  outside  official  review  channels  during  the  security  and policy review process. 10.1.4.  Make  inquiries  concerning  cases  being  reviewed  at  higher  levels  of  command through PA channels. 10.1.5.  Use  all  reasonable  measures  to  expedite  staffing  at  all  levels  to  make  sure publication deadlines, speaking dates, and other valid deadlines are met. 10.1.6.  Be  sure  to  check  release  guidance  in  other  regulations,  such  as  AFI  91-204, Safety  Investigations  and  Reports,  and  AFI  90-301,  Inspector  General  Complaints Resolution. 10.2.  See Paragraph 12 for mandatory step-by-step instructions. 11.  Review Considerations.  When reviewing material proposed for release, keep the following information in mind: 11.1.  Operations  Security  (OPSEC)  considerations.    OPSEC  is  a  process  of  collecting, identifying, and analyzing information on friendly military operations and other activities to identify and minimize actions which inadvertently provide an adversary timely indication of military action or access to critical information.  By identifying and denying this information, 8 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 operational  success  and  force  protection  are  enhanced.    The  OPSEC  analysis  examines  the planning, preparation, execution, and post-execution phases of any activity across the entire spectrum  of  military  activity  and  in  any  operational  environment.    Air  Force  commanders and decision makers should consider OPSEC during both mission and acquisition planning. 11.2.  Scientific  and  Technical  Information  (STINFO).  The  STINFO  program  has  the maximum impact on the development of Air Force technology and STINFO generated under Air Force contracts and programs make maximum contribution to the national economy. 11.2.1.  American is  greatly  sought.  Technology for application to a military weapon system may be considered sensitive as it may disclose too much about that potential system. is  a  valuable  commodity  and technology 11.2.2.  STINFO  officers  are  responsible  for  reviewing  reports  and  determining  which distribution statements should appear on the data.  Only reports marked “Distribution A” can  be  forwarded  for  security  and  policy  review  and  then  considered  for  release  to  the public.  This is the only technical information that should be considered for a public Web page.  For more information, refer to AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. 11.3.  Technology  transfer  is  the  process  by  which  knowledge,  facilities,  or  capabilities developed  in  one  place  or  for  one  purpose  are  transferred  and  used  in  another  place  for another  purpose  to  fulfill  actual  or  potential  public  or  domestic  needs.  The  Air  Force Technology  Transfer  Program  was  created  to  ensure  all  Air  Force  science  and  engineering activities  promote  the  transfer  or  exchange  of  technology  with  state  and  local  governments and the private sector.   Technology transfers shall comply  with  AFI 61-301, The Domestic Technology  Transfer  Process  and  the  Offices  of  Research  and  Technology  Applications. These  activities  enhance  the  economic  competitiveness  of  industry  and  promote  the productivity  of  state  and  local  governments  while  leveraging  the  DoD  research  and development investment.  It is important to ensure that any critical data be reviewed prior to release to the public so that the United States does not lose its critical edge in that particular area.   DoD and other agencies of the  Federal  Government  have  created a series of controls that are in use throughout the review process. 11.4.  The  Military  Critical  Technologies  List  (MCTL)  is  published  by  DoD  and  used  as  a reference  document,  not  as  a  strict  regulation  or  decision  tool.    It  is  a  guideline  listing  of those technologies that are critical to the security of our nation. 11.5.  International Traffic-in-Arms Regulations (ITARs) are a series of Department of State regulations  that  list  technical  data  about  arms  and  munitions  prohibited  from  export.    It includes any unclassified information that can be used, or be adapted for use, in the design, production, manufacture, repair, overhaul, processing, engineering, development, operations, maintenance, or reconstruction of arms, ammunition, and implements of war contained in the U.S. munitions list. 11.6.  Export  Control  Laws  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Department  of  Commerce  and  are established to provide export control policies and practices.  A validated license is required from  the  Department  of  Commerce  for  the  export  of  all  technical  data  listed  on  the Commodities Control List. AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 9 11.7.  Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  The Air Force Supplement to DoDD 5400.7-R, DoD  Freedom  of  Information  Act  Program,  states  the  public  will  be  allowed  to  inspect, review, and receive copies of Air Force records.  This applies to all Air Force records except for those exempt from release under the Act.  The exemptions under the FOIA, applicable to Air Force records, are generally: 11.7.1.  Classified records. 11.7.2.  Internal personnel rules and procedures. 11.7.3.  Records exempt from release by other statutes. 11.7.4.  Records containing confidential commercial information. 11.7.5.  Records otherwise privileged in civil litigation. 11.7.6.  Violation of personal privacy requirements IAW AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program 11.7.7.  Records related to open investigations. 12.  Step-by-Step Process. 12.1.  The following steps are mandatory at all levels: (T-1) 12.1.1.  Originators submit required information (see Paragraph 9) and correct number of copies through appropriate channels to the local PA office. 12.1.2.  Security  and  policy  review  authority  logs  the  case,  reviews  the  material  to determine which agencies must see it, establishes a suspense date, and dispatches the case for review. For an audiovisual product, the security and policy review authority reviews the video and script before scheduling a coordination viewing to evaluate the product. 12.1.3.  Coordinating  agencies  identify  either  classified  information  or  information  not consistent  with  official  policy.  Information  for  deletion  is  enclosed  in  brackets.  Mark classified  documents  in  accordance  with  DoDM  5200.01,  Volume  2,  DOD  Information Security  Program:  Marking  of  Classified  Information,  and  AFI  16-1404.  If  suspected classified information is found, immediately notify SAF/PA, Security and Policy Review office. 12.1.4.  The  Security  Review  Authority  determines  releasability  of  the  material  after receiving agency subject matter expert inputs, evaluating subject matter expert comments thoroughly,  and  contacting  subject  matter  expert  to  resolve  issues  or  concerns,  if applicable. 12.1.5.  After  the  Security  Review  Authority  determines  a  clearance  position,  review action is completed, or if required, the case is sent to the next review echelon. 12.1.6.  Once cases have been returned from higher-echelon  review (AFIMSC, SAF/PA or DOPSR), the security and policy review authority retains one file copy showing final clearance  and  any  changes  and  markings  to  the  material,  plus  copies  of  each  reviewing organization’s signed remarks. 10 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 12.1.7.  The originator will  receive an email  notification from  PAIRS and a copy of the cleared material if requested. If public release approval is denied, originator will receive correspondence explaining reason for denial. 13.  Subject Matter Expert (SME) Review Marking. 13.1.  Marking. Inclusive brackets, in black pen, identify the non-releasable information and signal  a  mandatory  amendment.  Bracketed  material  must  be  removed  before  publication  of the  document.    Write  substitute  language  above  the  brackets.    For  editorial  changes,  line through once and provide changes as necessary. 13.2.  Amending. Amendments require specific source citations and rationale. The SME must provide  sufficient  information  and  justification  to  enable  the  security  and  policy  review authority  to  sustain  an  amendment.  Such  documentation  eliminates  ambiguity  and  provides the  submitter  with  appropriate  sources  to  substantiate  the  required  change/amendment.  If  a SME  determines  a  document  to  be  classified,  he/she  must  supply  three  essential  pieces  of information: classification authority, level of classification, and downgrading instructions. 13.3.  Source Citations: 13.3.1.  Classification  authority  sources  most  frequently  cited  are the  security classification  guides,  provisions  of  classified  contracts  (DD  Form  254,  Department  of Defense  Contract  Security  Classification  Specification).  When  classified  material  is identified in a security and policy review case, advise everyone possessing the document at once to protect it as classified. 13.3.2.  Documentation  sources  can  be  presidential  pronouncements;  Defense  and  Air Force official statements; and Air Force policy directives, manuals, or policy letters. 13.4.  Objection. A coordinator may make overall objection to clearing a case. An objection does  not  require  marking  on  the  document,  but  it  does  require  detailed  supporting justification.  A  SME  may  make  a  total  objection  to  the  public  release  if  a  case  requires extensive amendment or rewrite for security or policy concerns. 13.5.  Editorial  Review.    Editorial  review  is  not  a  responsibility  of  the  security  and  policy review authority, but SMEs may edit for clarity and accuracy. Editorial recommendations are lined through once and include suggested substitution information. 13.6.  Other Coordination.  If an agency SME thinks the case should be reviewed by another agency, he or she should advise the security and policy review authority.  An early call can save several days in the review process. 13.7.  Timeliness.  Major security and policy review time-savers include timely coordination, proper marking, and accurate citing of classification sources.   AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 11  14.  Appeal Procedures  .  All amendments or “not cleared” determinations may be appealed in writing by the requester within 60 days.  Appeals must provide strong supporting rationale and authoritative  evidence.  Review  authorities  evaluate  and  decide  appeals  based  only  on  the additional evidence or reasoning provided.  All appeals will be resolved at the next echelon level.  When necessary, AFIMSC will elevate active-duty wing-level appeals to SAF/PA.  SAF/PA will arrange for the appeal to be considered at the Air Force or DOPSR level, as appropriate.  KATHLEEN A. COOK, Brigadier General, USAF Director of Public Affairs 12 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, 29 Dec 2009 DODM 5200.01, V2, DOD Information Security Program:  Marking of Classified Information, February 24, 2012, Incorporating Change 2, March 19, 2013 DOD 5400.7-R, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program, 2 Jan 2008 DOD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, 28 Feb 2006 DOD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation, 4 Dec 1985 DODD 5230.09, Clearance of DOD Information for Public Release, 16 Mar 2016 DODD 5500.7, Standards of Conduct, 29 Nov 2007 DODI 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DOD Information for Public Release, 13 Aug 2014 DODD 5205.02E, DOD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, June 20, 2012 DODI 8550.01, DoD Internet Services and Internet-Based Capabilities, September 11, 2012 Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12 Apr 2001, as amended through 17 Oct 2008 Joint Publication 3-61, Public Affairs, 25 Aug 2010 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 Jan 2015 AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 15 Sep 2013 AFI 35-107, Public Web Communications, 21 Oct 2009 AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 Aug 2002 AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 Aug 2011 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 28 Sep 2012 AFI 16-1401 Air Force Information Security Program,, 29 May 2015 Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS, https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm   AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 13 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI— Air Force Instruction AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology AFIMSC—Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive DD— Defense Department DoD— Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI— Department of Defense Instruction DOPSR— Defense Office of Prepublication and Security Review DRU— Direct Reporting Unit EO— Executive Order FOA— Field Operating Agency FOIA— Freedom of Information Act ITAR— International Traffic in Arms Regulation MAJCOM—Major Command MCTL— Military Critical Technologies List OPSEC— Operations Security PA— Public Affairs PAIRS—Public Affairs Information Release SME— Subject Matter Expert STINFO—Scientific and Technology Information   14 Terms AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 Access—the ability or opportunity to gain knowledge of classified information. Agency—any  “Executive  agency,”  as  defined  in  5  U.S.C.  105;  any  “Military  department”  as defined  in  5  U.S.C.  102;  and  any  other  entity  within  the  executive  branch  that  comes  into  the possession of classified information. Appeals—. All amendments or “not cleared” determinations may be appealed in writing by the requester within 60 days to DOPSR. Audiovisual—The  use  of  sound  and  visual  imagery  displays  to  communicate  information (motion  pictures,  television,  still  photographs,  slides  and  film  strips,  radio,  recordings,  graphic illustration models, videos, and demonstrations) Classification—the  determination  that  official  information  requires,  in  the  interests  of  national security,  a  specific  degree  of  protection  against  unauthorized  disclosure,  coupled  with  a designation signifying that such a determination has been made. Classification Guidance—any instruction or source that prescribes the classification of specific information. Classified  National  Security  Information  or  Classified  Information—official  information that has been determined to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form. Cleared  for  Public  Release.—The  information  may  be  released  without  restriction  by  the originating  DoD  Component  or  its  authorized  official.  DOPSR  may  require  a  disclaimer  to accompany the information, as follows: “The views expressed are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the Department of Defense or the U.S. Government.” Cleared  “With  Recommendations”  for  Public  Release—. Optional corrections, deletions, or additions  are  included.  Although  DOPSR  has  no  responsibility  for  correcting  errors  of  fact  or making  editorial  changes,  obvious  errors  may  be  identified  in  the  text  and  noted  as “recommended.” These corrections are not binding on the author or originator. Cleared  “As  Amended”  for  Public  Release.—Amendments,  made  in  red,  are  binding  on  the originator.  Red  brackets  identify  information  that  must  be  deleted.  If  the  amendments  are  not adopted,  then  the  DoD  clearance  is  void.  When  possible,  alternative  wording  is  provided  to substitute for the deleted material. Occasionally, wording will be included that must be added to the text before public release. A disclaimer, as shown in paragraph a(1) of this section, may also be required. Declassification  Authority—the  official  who  authorized  the  original  classification,  if  that official  is  still  serving  in  the  same  position;  the  originator's  current  successor  in  function;  a supervisory  official  of  either;  or  officials  delegated  declassification  authority  in  writing  by  the agency head or the senior agency official. Document—any recorded information, regardless of the nature of the medium or the method or circumstances of recording. Downgrading—a  determination  by  a  declassification  authority  that  information  classified  and safeguarded  at  a  specified  level  shall  be  classified  and  safeguarded  at  a  lower  level.  Federally Funded Research and Engineering. Originators will comply with the DoD guidance in federally AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 15 funded  research  and  engineering  in  DoDI  3200.12  and  DoDI  3200.14  (References  (r)  and  (s)), which  requires  originators  to  send  the  final  published  document  or  final  author’s  referenced manuscript to the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). Field Operating Agency (FOA)—A subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to a HQ USAF functional manager. FOAs perform field activities beyond the scope of any of the major commands. Their activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force wide mission. Information—any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, regardless of its  physical  form  or  characteristics,  which  is  owned  by,  produced  by  or  for,  or  is  under  the control  of  the  United  States  Government.  ―Control‖  means  the  authority  of  the  agency  that originates information, or its successor in function, to regulate access to the information. ITAR—Information  generated  from  IR&D  first  should  be  checked  against  the  State Department’s  International  Traffic-In-Arms  Regulations  (ITAR).  This  is  a  document  detailing the United States munitions and procedures for export of defense articles and defense services. If the information in the material to be released is specified in the ITAR, then it could be subject to Department of State licensing. Technical papers intended for public release may be submitted to the  Washington  Headquarters  Service,  Office  of  Security  Review  (WHS/ESD/OSR)  located  in the  Pentagon.  If  cleared  for  release  and  placed  in  the  public  domain  by  the  contractor,  the technical paper is exempt from export licensing requirements. This review authority has not been delegated to the individual military services. Not cleared for public release.—The information submitted for review may not be released. Open  Publication—The  release  or  dissemination  of  information  outside  official  government channels. Operations  Security  (OPSEC)  Considerations—.  OPSEC  is  a  process  of  collecting, identifying,  and  analyzing  information  on  friendly  military  operations  and  other  activities  to identify  and  minimize  actions  which  inadvertently  provide  an  adversary  timely  indication  of military  action  or  access  to  critical  information.  By  identifying  and  denying  this  information, operational success and force protection are enhanced. Original Classification—an initial determination that information requires, in the interest of the national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure. Originator—Creator of the document (i.e. article, presentation, manuscript) Public Domain—That area owned by the public. Information is in the public domain when it has been made available to the public. Records—the  records  of  an  agency  and  Presidential  papers  or  Presidential  records,  as  those terms  are  defined  in  title  44,  United  States  Code,  including  those  created  or  maintained  by  a government contractor, licensee, certificate holder, or grantee that are subject to the sponsoring agency's control under the terms of the contract, license, certificate, or grant. Security  Review.—The  security  review  protects  classified  information,  controlled  unclassified information,  or  unclassified  information  that  may  individually  or  in  aggregate  lead  to  the compromise of classified information or disclosure of operations security. Scientific  and  Technical  Information  (STINFO).—The  STINFO  program  ensures  scientific and  technical  information  make  the  maximum  impact  on  the  development  of  Air  Force 16 AFI35-102  4 MAY 2016 technology  and  ensures  the  scientific  and  technical  information  generated  under  Air  Force contracts and programs make maximum contribution to the national economy. Unauthorized Disclosure—a communication or physical transfer of classified information to an unauthorized recipient. Violation—(1)  any  knowing,  willful,  or  negligent  action  that  could  reasonably  be  expected  to result  in  an  unauthorized  disclosure  of  classified  information;  (2)  any  knowing,  willful,  or negligent  action  to  classify  or  continue  the  classification  of  information  contrary  to  the requirements  of  this  order  or  its  implementing  directives;  or  (3)  any  knowing,  willful,  or negligent action to create or continue a SAP contrary to the requirements of this order. Website  Publication.—Information  intended  for  placement  on  websites  or  other  publicly accessible computer servers that are available to anyone requires review and clearance for public release if it meets the requirements of section 1 of this enclosure and DoDI 8550.01 (Reference (p)).  Website  clearance  questions  should  be  directed  to  the  Component’s  website  manager. Review  and  clearance  for  public  release  is  not  required  for  information  to  be  placed  on  DoD controlled websites or computer servers that restrict access to authorized users  