Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-201727 FEBRUARY 1995PersonnelADMISSIONS LIAISON OFFICER PROGRAMCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ USAF/OL-C  (Lt Col Steven A. Simon) Supersedes AFI 36-2017, 9 June 1994.Certified by: HQ USAF/DP (Lt Gen Billy J. Boles)Pages: 19Distribution:This instruction implements AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel.  It establishes pro-cedures for the US Air Force Admissions Liaison Officer (ALO) Program.  It applies to all individuals eli-gible to serve in the ALO Program (active duty officers, US Air Force Reserve (USAFR) and Air NationalGuard (ANG) officers not on active duty, retirees and civilians).  This instruction directs collecting andmaintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 8013.  System of Records F053 AFA C applies.SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis is a revision of AFI 36-2017, 9 June 1994.  It updates, clarifies, and reorganizes previous guidanceon ALO duties.  A | indicates revisions from the previous edition.Chapter 1PROGRAM OBJECTIVES1.1. Purpose. The ALO Program prepares each ALO to inform, counsel, and evaluate prospective appli-cants for careers in the US Air Force.  ALOs discuss the benefits, requirements, and obligations of the AirForce Academy (USAFA) and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) commissioning pro-grams.  ALOs also evaluate applicants.  The ALO Program strives to provide the  Air Force with the bestqualified and most highly motivated students available.2Chapter 2RESPONSIBILITIES ASSIGNED2.1. Associate Director of Admissions for Enrollment Programs (USAFA/RRP) Responsibili ties:2.1.1. Directs the worldwide network of admissions liaison officer program activities to support can-didate recruiting programs for the US Air Force Academy. 2.1.2. Provides counseling, recruiting, and scholarship evaluation support to the AFROTC programas set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement and Joint Implementation Plan between USAFA,AFROTC, and USAFRS.2.1.3. Plans and implements the training program for all ALOs.2.1.4. Publishes handbooks, guides, training materials, and other directives necessary to effectivelymanage and implement the ALO Program.2.1.5. Publishes and distributes a quarterly Liaison Officer Management Update to ensure personneland program currency.2.1.6. Coordinates and assists with developing media advertisement and recruiting publications forUSAFA and the ALO force.2.1.7. Coordinates all recruiting programs and initiatives conducted by the USAFA AdmissionsOffice for educator visits, appointee orientations, candidate briefings and tours, Air Staff training,Summer Scientific Seminars, and Academy Awareness.2.1.8. Coordinates and monitors the USAFA cadet Grass Roots Programs to support ALO commu-nity recruiting initiatives.2.1.9. Provides administrative support for budgeting, contracts, travel orders, man-day management,awards, and Officer Evaluation System (OES).2.1.10. Coordinates with HQ USAFRS, Recruiting Service Operations (RSO) and AFROTC/Recruit-ing Division (RRO) on joint recruiting issues, plans, and policies.2.2. USAFA Regional Directors (USAFA/RRPR) Responsibilities:2.2.1. Supervise ALO activities within an assigned geographic region.  Help USAFA/RRP imple-ment the ALO Program.2.2.2. Screen and review selection of new ALOs.  Monitor performance and conduct of all assignedpersonnel.2.2.3. Train, evaluate, and manage each assigned LOC area.  Develop, manage, and conduct initialand recurring ALO training programs at USAFA.2.2.4. Review and coordinate on all Officer Performance Reports (OPR) and Letters of Evaluation(LOE) for assigned personnel.2.2.5. Conduct marketing and production analysis of the assigned area and respective LOC areas.2.2.6. Monitor the administration and quality of candidate applications and evaluations.32.2.7. Monitor the ALO supply system to ensure LOCs and ALOs receive supplies, media productsand administrative support necessary to perform duties.2.2.8. Represent the USAFA at public events as a spokesperson on national objectives and LOC areaprograms.2.2.9. Perform other duties as specified by the Associate Director of Admissions for Enrollment Pro-grams.2.2.10. Coordinate with AFROTC Regional Directors of Admissions (RDA), Assistant RDAs(ARDA), and HQ USAFRS group operations officers on joint recruiting issues, activities, plans, pol-icies, or problems.2.3. USAFA Reserve Personnel Division (USAFA/RRPRA) Responsibilities:  2.3.1. Serves as interface between the USAFA Admissions Office and Air Reserve Personnel Centerfor personnel and administrative matters associated with Reserve Affairs activities involving ALOs.2.3.2. Provides administrative support, special orders, and Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA)active duty actions for the ALO Program.2.3.3. Monitor man-day resources and process requests.2.3.4. Coordinate and control suspense actions for the Officer Evaluation System (OES), and awardsnominations to include USAFA endorsements.2.3.5. Provide administrative-related training during USAFA tours.2.4. USAF Admissions Liaison Officer Commander (LOC) Responsibilities. Generally,  the  LOCmanages the program within the assigned area.  The LOC motivates, trains, and communicates with theALOs in the assigned area.  Specifically, the LOC must:2.4.1. Supervise the ALO Program within the assigned area as prescribed by USAFA/RRP, imple-ment the USAFA and AFROTC marketing plan, and structure unit activities to achieve desired goalsand production.2.4.2. Recruit, interview, and screen all potential ALO applicants to the ALO Program.  Ensure everyapplicant recommended for assignment to the ALO Program excels in personal and professional stan-dards.  Establish clearly defined standards of performance and expectations.  Secure a verbal or writ-ten agreement of understanding from the ALO applicant.  2.4.3. Coordinate USAFA and AFROTC applicant recruiting activities within the assigned area asprescribed by USAFA/RRP and maintain close liaison with RDAs, ARDAs,  AFROTC detachments,and USAFRS to meet local recruiting requirements and goals.2.4.4. Assign specific areas of responsibility to each ALO including Educational Testing Service(ETS) Codes, ZIP Codes, secondary schools, youth organizations, AFROTC detachments, militaryunits, colleges, and junior colleges.2.4.5. Assign additional duties such as candidate fitness test monitor, public affairs officer, and ZIPCode officer to ALOs.2.4.6. Supervise, train, and ensure currency of assigned ALOs.  Appoint a training officer (TO) toconduct, monitor, and record all unit training requirements.  Ensure ALOs can perform ALO duties.42.4.7. Appoint a unit supply officer (SO) to manage unit supply support.2.4.8. Establish and maintain an aggressive minority recruiting program to assist in achieving AirForce needs.  Appoint a minority affairs coordinator (MAC) to oversee the unit’s minority recruitingefforts.2.4.9. Conduct a local athletic talent search (FALCON HUNT) program to identify athletic talent forUSAFA.  Appoint a unit area athletic contact (AC) to coordinate with the Academy Director of Ath-letics for Recruiting and Counseling (USAFA/AHD) and ensure unit compliance with National Colle-giate Athletic Association rules concerning athletic recruiting.2.4.10. Maintain contact with and support the local USAFA Parents Club.  Appoint a Parents Clubproject officer (PC) to serve as point of contact for the Parents Club staff.2.4.11. Track production, monitor performance, evaluate effectiveness, and initiate action to removenonproductive or ineffective ALOs from the program.2.4.12. Maintain individual personnel records on all assigned and attached ALOs, as directed byUSAFA/RRP.2.4.13. Authorize and approve AF Form 49, Application for MPA Man-Day Tour, for assigned,eligible, and attached Reserve ALOs.2.4.14. Authorize and certify the AF Form 40a, Authorization for Individual Inactive Duty Train-ing.2.4.15. Certify the Statement of Tour of Duty on all MPA orders.2.4.16. Submit and verify reports on all ALO activities, as required by USAFA/RRP and USAFA/RRPR.2.4.17. Prepare OPRs on all primary duty ALOs, and LOEs on additional duty ALOs, whenrequested.2.4.18. Attend the Liaison Officer Commanders’ Conference at USAFA.2.4.19. Attend or ensure unit representation at required semiannual recruiting cooperation meeting.2.4.20. Assign other special project officers as needed to perform specialized ALO duties or managespecial programs.2.4.21. Coordinate with USAFRS squadron commanders or operations officers on joint recruitingissues, activities, plans, policies, or problems.  Participate in the squadron’s annual training meeting asrequested and encourage squadron commanders to attend LOC Annual Area meetings.2.4.22. Schedule an annual area meeting for all assigned area ALOs.  Meeting will cover USAFA,AFROTC, and USAFRS information updates.  Schedule representation from these agencies to attendand brief.  Notify all assigned ALOs to attend.2.5. Deputy Admissions Liaison Officer Commander (DLOC) Responsibilities:2.5.1. Prepares OPRs and LOEs on assigned ALOs as directed by the LOC.2.5.2. Assists the LOC with administration and training of ALOs.2.5.3. Performs LOC duties, as required and assigned.52.6. Admissions Liaison Officer (ALO) Responsibilities:2.6.1. Counsels secondary school students, parents or guardians, youth groups, Air Force installationcommanders, USAFRS units, Civil Air Patrol units, and other requesting agencies.  Recruits andmotivates outstanding candidates for USAFA and AFROTC programs.2.6.2. At least annually, contacts or visits secondary schools to establish a liaison with school offi-cials.  Offers to conduct orientation programs for interested students at college fairs and other sched-uled events.  Coordinates visits with the responsible Non-Prior Service (NPS) recruiter when possible.Introduces new NPS recruiters to the school liaison and ensures school officials are familiar withAFROTC college scholarship application procedures.2.6.3. Interviews and evaluates USAFA candidates and AFROTC scholarship applicants.2.6.4. Helps candidates with admissions information and application procedures and advises the LOCand USAFA/RRP or AFROTC/RR of candidate application problems.2.6.5. Works with USAFA Parents Clubs and maintains followup contact with cadets and their rela-tives.2.6.6. Arranges and coordinates cadet, AFROTC, or USAFA personnel public appearances at specialevents, awards, banquets, Parents Club activities, Academy Days, and other programs.  2.6.7. Explains US Air Force Academy Preparatory School application procedures, AFROTC admis-sions procedures, and Academy admissions procedures to military units during commanders’ calls.2.6.8. Attends training meetings and completes all training requirements for USAFA and AFROTC:an active duty orientation tour at the Academy and host AFROTC detachment within 6 months of ini-tial assignment; refresher training as required by USAFA/RRP; and periodic AFROTC field trainingencampment orientations.  Participates in meetings held by the USAFRS personnel to increase theirunderstanding of a local AFROTC/USAFA recruiting issues.2.6.9. Submits activity reports, as required by the LOC.2.6.10. Serves as a committee or board member to screen, evaluate, recommend or select congres-sional nominees, and provide administrative assistance to congressional staffers when requested by aMember of Congress.2.6.11. Performs other tasks assigned by the LOC, USAFA/RRP and USAFA/RRPR.2.6.12. Coordinates with AFROTC RDAs, ARDAs, Detachment Recruiting Officers, NPS recruitersor their supervisors, and USAFRS squadron commanders or operations officers, on joint recruitingissues, activities, plans, policies, or problems when necessary.2.6.13. Attends high school graduations to present Air Force Academy appointments and AFROTCScholarships.2.7. Air Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC) Responsibilities:2.7.1. Provides administrative support to assigned Reservists performing ALO duties.2.7.2. Manages the Field Record Group according to AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records Sys-tem.62.7.3. Processes applications for Reserve assignments and provide administrative support for all per-sonnel actions.2.7.4. Keeps participation records according to AFMAN 36-8001, Reserve Education and Training.2.7.5. Controls OPR submissions.2.7.6. Manages all other administrative correspondence on assigned ALO personnel.2.8. AFROTC Recruiting Division (AFROTC/RRO) Responsibilities, Relative to the ALO P r o -gram:2.8.1. Formulates AFROTC recruiting policy.2.8.2. Provides technical guidance to the ALO force and to USAFRS/RSO.2.8.3. Provides AFROTC field recruiting support for ALOs and NPS recruiters.2.8.4. Provides AFROTC recruiting supplies for the ALO force.2.8.5. Publishes AFROTC training materials for the ALO force.2.8.6. Develops media advertisement and recruiting publications for use by ALOs.2.8.7. Provides support to USAFA as set forth in the Letter of Agreement between USAFA,AFROTC, and USAFRS.2.9. AFROTC Program Liaison Branch (AFROTC/RROL) Responsibilities:2.9.1. Provides liaison between AFROTC and USAFA.2.9.2. Serves as the focal point for developing joint AFROTC and USAFA admissions and recruitinginitiatives.2.9.3. Monitors ALO activity to support overall AFROTC recruiting objectives.2.9.4. Ensures maximum coordination and cooperation between ALOs, AFROTC recruiting person-nel, and USAFR personnel.2.9.5. Informs ALOs of AFROTC program changes.2.9.6. Helps USAFA/RRP develop, manage, and conduct initial and recurring training programs forALOs at USAFA.2.9.7. Establishes AFROTC College Scholarship Program recruiting goals for each LOC unit.  Mon-itors goal accomplishment.2.10. AFROTC Regional Directors of Admissions Responsibilities:2.10.1. Act as the AFROTC field representative for Local ALOs, NPS recruiters and their supervi-sors, and USAFRS squadron and group representatives.2.10.2. Coordinate AFROTC recruiting efforts of local ALOs.2.10.3. Provide staff support to Local ALOs, as needed.72.10.4. Coordinate local AFROTC training for ALOs with ALOCs and USAFRS squadron opera-tions officers, and provide AFROTC-related training for ALOs and NPS recruiters.2.10.5. Facilitate joint AFROTC, USAFA, and USAFRS recruiting programs and initiatives in thelocal community.8Chapter 3ASSIGNMENT ELIGIBILITY3.1. Primary Duty Assignment. Any USAFR officer eligible for assignment to a Ready Reserve posi-tion according to AFI 36-2115, Assignment Within the Reserve Components, is eligible for assignment tothe 9001st ARS.  The following limitations and exceptions will disqualify an officer for primary dutyALO duties or require termination:3.1.1. Assignment to Inactive Status List Reserve Section (ISLRS) with 20 years of satisfactory Fed-eral service for retirement.3.1.2. Assignment to ISLRS twice for failure to meet participation requirements for retention inactive Reserve status.3.1.3. Entry within 2 years of maximum service date.3.1.4. Twice failed promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel in the USAFR, ANG, or activeduty Air Force.3.1.5. Failure to earn promotion to first lieutenant during the first eligible cycle.3.1.6. Assignment to Obligated Reserve Section/Reserve Corps (ORS/RC) and served less than twoyears.3.1.7. Assignment to the Judge Advocate General’s Corps.3.1.8. Assignment as a chaplain.  (Chaplains may serve as additional duty ALOs if they otherwisemeet eligibility criteria.)3.1.9. Assigned to a medical Air Force specialty code (AFSC).  (Individuals with medical AFSCsmay serve as additional duty LOs if qualified.) 3.1.10. Rank of lieutenant colonel or colonel with 20 or more satisfactory years service and eligiblefor retirement.  (These officers are eligible to serve as additional duty ALOs if qualified.)3.1.11. Rank of General Officer.  (General Officers may serve as additional duty ALOs in a limitedcapacity at the discretion of the LOC.)3.1.12. Failure to maintain a sustained exemplary record of performance in past assignments.  Perfor-mance reports should not reflect unfavorable information or contain negative references of commentsregarding conduct, attitude, or inability to work and function well with the public.3.1.12.1. For reports rendered during the Officer Effectiveness Report (OER) system, officersshould not have two consecutive OERs with a rating of two or lower during the "uncontrolledOER" periods or any OER with "uncontrolled" ratings of three or lower.3.1.12.2. OPRs under the OES must "meet standards" and receive the support of the additionalrater and reviewer.3.1.13. Involvement in any public or private activity which conflicts or reflects negatively on the AirForce, Air Force Academy, Air Force ROTC, or the overall ALO Program.93.2. Additional Duty ALO Assignments:3.2.1. Active duty officers, ANG officers, and USAFR officers may serve as additional duty ALOswith approval from their primary duty unit commander.  Officers with less than 2 years of commis-sioned service must obtain a waiver from USAFA/RRP for ALO duty assignments.3.2.2. Selected retired Air Force officers may serve as ALOs with approval of USAFA/RRP.3.2.3. USAFA/RRP may assign other individuals to the ALO Program for additional duty supportwhen a critical need exists.  They must have previous ALO experience in the program or have a spe-cial background or expertise in such work.    3.2.4. Active duty officers assigned to AFROTC may not serve as additional duty ALOs.  NOTE:The limitations and exceptions in 3.1.11 and 3.1.12 apply to all additional duty applicants.10Chapter 4APPLICATION PROCEDURES4.1. General. Assignments to the ALO Program must meet a valid need within each LOC area.  Market-ing and production goals, population, demographics, schools assigned, ZIP Code loads, ALO assignmentcategories, ALO availability, and turnover all affect the number of ALOs assigned.  To apply, the appli-cant requests consideration from the LOC of the desired area.  The LOC determines the need and inter-views the applicant to explain requirements, program policies, standards, and the administrativeapplication process.  LOCs desiring to hire a new ALO will then forward each application, with a letter ofrecommendation and justification, to the respective USAFA/RRPR official for final approval.4.2. Primary Duty ALOs in Category H. Individuals in this category must submit:4.2.1. A general letter of request to the LOC outlining why the applicant desires to serve as an ALO.4.2.2. Copies of the applicant’s last three OERs/OPRs. 4.2.3. A USAFA Form 0-317, Personal Biographical Data Card.  The nine digit zip code and eth-nic group must be annotated on the card.4.2.4. An AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment, with this statement in Item17:  "USAF Admissions Liaison Officer, 9001st Air Reserve Squadron, RS-MX, Pay Group--None."For transfer from another unit, losing unit must indorse the AF Form 1288 with date member was offi-cially released based on orders.NOTE:Reserve Officers assigned to the Judge Advocate General’s Corps must obtain a redesignation from theirlegal AFSC to become primary duty or additional duty ALOs.4.3. Additional Duty USAFR, ANG, and Active Duty Personnel Applicants. Individuals in this cate-gory must, in addition to 4.2, submit a letter of approval from the commander of their primary duty autho-rizing the applicant to serve as an additional duty ALO.4.4. Additional Duty Retired or Civilian ALOs .   Individuals in this category must, in addition to sec-tions 4.2.1 and 4.2.3,  submit:4.4.1.  A statement agreeing to: 4.4.1.4.4.1.1. Perform all ALO functions and comply with personal appearance, conduct, training, andperformance standards required of all other ALOs.4.4.1.2. Serve without compensation or reimbursement from the government.4.4.1.3. Release his or her name, grade, rank, address, and business and home telephone numbersunder the Privacy Act to persons inquiring about the ALO Program.4.4.2. Two letters of reference addressing attitude, character, performance, and motivation.4.4.3. Copies of last three OERs or OPRs (retired officers only).11Chapter 5SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT PROCEDURES5.1. Application Processing. USAFA/RRP personnel conduct a records review, when possible usingautomated data printouts.  USAFA/RRPR review applications and provide recommendations to USAFA/RRP.  The 9001st ARS, ARPC must also approve and process applications for primary duty assignments.If USAFA/RRP personnel deny the request, they advise the LOC of the reasons and return the applicationpackage.5.2. Acceptance. Upon acceptance, all new ALOs receive an ALO identification number and placementon orders or on an active RRP/ALO Roster.5.3. Assignment. New ALOs will not be assigned to manage ZIP/ETS codes or be given responsibilityfor completing candidate evaluations until completion of the initial ALO Training Tour at USAFA.USAFA/RRPR must approve any exception.12Chapter 6ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS6.1. Officer Performance Reports (OPR). The LOC on primary duty ALOs prepare OPRs annually, orupon change of unit assignment, according to AFI 36-2402, Officer Evaluation System.6.2. Retirement Points:6.2.1. Primary duty ALOs in 9001st ARS earn points toward retirement according to AFI 36-8001.These ALOs must earn at least 48 points annually (not including the 15 membership points) for per-forming LO-related duties.  This will satisfy the requirement for a good year in the Air Force Reserve.Documentation requirements:6.2.1.1. At the end of each month, ALOs complete an AF Form 40a, reflecting duty dates andhours according to AFI 36-8001 for USAFA activities and attachment 1 to this instruction.6.2.1.2. LOCs certify performance and authorization of credit claimed on ALO’s AF Form 40a.6.2.2. ALOs in Other Reserve Categories and the ANG are eligible to earn retirement points.  LOCsmay set a minimum requirement for effective participation within their respective LOC areas.  See6.2.1.1 and 6.2.1.2 for documentation requirements.6.2.3. Members must be in a proper uniform and meet the dress and appearance standards of AFI36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel, to take part in any pay or point-gaining activ-ity.6.2.4. Members must meet the medical standards of AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and MedicalStandards, to take part in any pay or point-gaining activity.6.3. Military Personnel Appropriations (MPA) Man-Days. USAFR and ANG ALOs may use MPAman-days for ALO duties and training associated with the ALO Program.  USAFA/RRPR allocateman-days to the LOCs, and LOCs in turn approve and manage their expenditure.  ALOs request MPAman-days from the LOC who in turn forwards approved requests to USAFA for administrative processingand coordination with the primary unit.6.4. Activity Reports. Submit activity reports, as required by the LOC.13Chapter 7TRAINING AND ORIENTATION REQUIREMENTS7.1. ALO Orientation. New ALOs must attend a 5-day initial ALO orientation tour at USAFA as soonas possible after initial assignment.  USAFA/RRP schedules required refresher training, every 5 yearsafter initial orientation.  New ALOs must attend a 1-day active duty tour at a host AFROTC detachmentas soon as possible after assignment and every once every 3 years thereafter.  All ALOs should periodi-cally attend an AFROTC training encampment orientation.  ALOs should forward requests for USAFAtraining tours through the LOC to USAFA/RRPR.  The USAFA Reserve Personnel Division prepares orcoordinates administrative orders and TDY requests.7.2. Annual Training Exceptions. ALOs assigned to 9001st ARS will not perform annual training(AT).  Primary duty units will establish AT requirements for ALOs assigned to other USAFR or ANGunits.  On occasion, ALOs may perform their AT at USAFA, if authorized by their command or assign-ment.  (See AFI 36-8001 concerning waiver for AT.)7.3. Professional Military Education. ALO personnel assigned as primary duty reservists with the9001st ARS may not attend Professional Military Education (PME) in residence, but may attend NationalSecurity Seminars in a nonpay status for points only, if quotas allow.14Chapter 8COMMUNICATIONS8.1. General. LOCs must annually contact congressional members and staff to maintain communicationsliaison.  Each LOC should offer ALO support or assistance; i.e., congressional selections panels, brief-ings, and other related USAFA and AFROTC recruiting and screening activities.  ALOs may communi-cate by personal visit, telephone, or written correspondence, but must not solicit nominations, committeeinterview ratings, rankings or selection results.  ALOs who have contact with a Member of Congress mustnotify the Academy concerning the date and substance of the contact.  A congressional contact form isavailable for such purposes.8.2. Communication with Admissions Staff. ALOs may coordinate directly with the appropriateUSAFA admissions staff regarding USAFA applicant problems and status.  They should direct ALO Pro-gram administration and management inquiries to the respective USAFA/RRPR.8.3. Communication with Cadets and their Commanders. ALOs should correspond directly withUSAFA or AFROTC Cadets and their USAFA Air Officers Commanding (AOC) or AFROTC Comman-dant of Cadets to offer encouragement, maintain support, and monitor progress if they recruited andassisted them in obtaining USAFA appointments or enrolling in AFROTC. ALOs and USAFA AOCs orAFROTC detachment staff may mutually communicate with one another to maintain support of theirrespective cadets.8.4. Communication with Senior Staff. ALOs communicate with the USAFA Superintendent, Dean ofFaculty, Commandant of Cadets, Director of Athletics, AFROTC Commandant, or AFROTC Vice Com-mandant through the USAFA or AFROTC chain of command.8.5. Communication with Primary Duty Unit. USAFR and ANG ALOs must coordinate and commu-nicate directly with their primary duty units on personnel, administration, career, and other unit matters.8.6. Communication with USAFRS Personnel. LOCs, DLOCs, and ALOs normally communicatewith USAFRS personnel through the USAFRS chain of command.  Depending on the nature of the com-munication, ALO personnel at any level may directly address any echelon within USAFRS.  They must,however, inform their counterparts in the USAFA chain of command of such communications.15Chapter 9RETENTION POLICY9.1. Retention. Retention in the ALO Program is contingent upon satisfactory performance of duty.ALOs failing to maintain the standards outlined in AFI 36-2612, Air Force Reserve Reenlistment, chapter3, risk removal from the program.  USAFA/RRPR and LOCs may recommend removal from the ALOProgram for unsatisfactory conduct, performance, and lack of participation, or other cause.  USAFA/RRPmakes the final decision.9.2. Training and Currency. ALOs must satisfy initial and periodic USAFA, AFROTC, and local train-ing requirements to maintain currency.9.3. Transfers to Other LOC Areas. ALOs support a specific LOC area.  Transferees to another LOCarea must obtain approval of the gaining LOC to serve as an ALO in the new area.9.4. Points for Primary Duty ALOs. Primary duty ALOs assigned to the 9001st ARS must annuallyearn at least 48 points for performing ALO duties.  Credit for the 15 or more points earned for being in theprimary duty training category does not count towards the 48 ALO duty-points requirement.9.5. Appearance and Weight Standards. All primary and additional duty ALOs must meet the uniformrequirements and weight and dress standards set forth in AFI 36-2903 and AFI 40-502,  Air Force WeightManagement Program.9.6. Probationary Status. USAFA/RRP may retain an ALO who is deficient in some area in probation-ary status not to exceed 1 year.  At the conclusion of the year, the LOC will submit an evaluation of theALO’s performance with a recommendation for continuance or deletion from the program.9.7. Other. Additional duty ALOs removed from the USAFR, ANG, or active duty for cause lose theireligibility for ALO duty status.BILLY J. BOLES,   Lt General, USAFDCS/Personnel16Attachment 1USAFA ALO ACTIVITIESActivities Authorized for Point Credit.  ALOs should use Table A1.1. to identify and report authorizedALO activities on AF Form 40a, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training.  17Table A1.1. Activities Authorized for Point Credit.LINE1School ContactAActivity Title2345678910111213Individual ContactStudent Group ContactAdult Group ContactRecruiter ContactCareer Day ConventionCandidate EvaluationProficiency MaintenanceCandidate Fitness Test (CFT).See note.HGrass Roots  See note.Minority AffairsEducator VisitParents ClubBDefinitionContact with school personnel (e.g., personal visit,phone call, preparation of a letter, newsletter to aschool).Counseling or other contact on an individual basiswith students, parents, cadets, or other persons con-cerning the Academy and AFROTC.Presentation to a group of students (e.g., scouts,social studies class, Civil Air Patrol, student bodyassembly) to provide general information about theAcademy or AFROTC.Presentation to a group of adults (e.g., a civic orreligious group) to provide general informationabout the Academy or AFROTC.Presentation of Academy and AFROTC informa-tion to an Air Force recruiter.  Also, attendance atrecruiter meetings.Participation in Career Day, College Day, or inother types of fairs or conventions to hand outAcademy and AFROTC information.Preparation of a candidate evaluation to includeboth the writing of an evaluation and obtaining nec-essary data from teachers, guidance personnel,coaches, and other individuals.Participation in Academy- or AFROTC-directedactivities to maintain ALO proficiency.  Includesindividual testing, meetings, and conferences.Activity associated with Candidate Fitness Testing.Activity associated with the Grass Roots program.Activity associated with programs of the AcademyMinority Affairs Office or AFROTC QWP.Activity associated with the Educator Visit pro-gram.Activity associated with the Parents Club program.1814Orientation Meeting1516171819Summer Scientific SeminarPublic InformationCongressionalSupply ManagementLOC/DLOC ManagementActivity associated with an orientation meeting orother programs especially for precandidates, candi-dates, and appointees to the Academy, and for indi-viduals in the AFROTC scholarship applicationprocess.Activity associated with the  Summer ScientificSeminar program.Activity to maintain public awareness of the Acad-emy and AFROTC through media (scholarship orappointment presentation).Assistance provided to a Member of Congress orcongressional staff by providing informationregarding the Academy and AFROTC or servingon a selection committee.Activity to maintain supply program (for use bySupply Officers only).Activity associated with overall management of theALO Program (for use by LOCs and DLOCs only).NOTE:Include time spent preparing for an event such as CFT or Grass Roots.19