 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (SAF/PA) AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 35-104 22 MAY 2017 Public Affairs MEDIA OPERATIONS    COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/PAO  Supersedes:  AFI 35-104, 22 Jan 2010  Certified by: SAF/PAO  (Lt Col Chris Karns) Pages: 46  This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 35-1, Public Affairs Management. It provides guidance pertaining to release of accurate and continuous flow of information to the public and guidance for Public Affairs media travel or transportation. It also implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5410.15, Department of Defense Public Affairs Assistance to Non-Government, Non-Entertainment Oriented Print and Electronic Media; DoDI 5410.16, Department of Defense Assistance to Non-Government, Entertainment-Oriented Motion Picture, Television, and Video Productions;  Department of Defense (DoD) 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility (November 1994); ) DoDI 5435.2, Delegation of Authority to Approve Travel In and Use Military Carriers for Public Affairs Purposes; DoDI 5410.15; and DoD Directive (DoDD) 5122.8, Use of Military Carriers for Public Affairs Purposes. Read this instruction with Joint Publication 3-61, Public Affairs; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-401, Aviation Management; and AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier number (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to SAF/PA for non-tiered compliance items.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements are routed to SAF/PAO for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual  2 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS. This instruction applies to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG), unless otherwise noted. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  instruction has been substantially revised and requires a complete review.  Major changes include:    identifies  Tiered  waiver  authorities  for  wing  level,  DRU,  and  FOA  requirements; updates  the  objectives  of  the  Air  Force  media  operations  program;  clarifies  who  can  serve  as official  Air  Force  spokespersons;  incorporates  guidelines  for  media  travel,  previously  found  in AFI  35-103,  Public  Affairs  Travel;  and  revises  the  policy  on  media  interviews  with  military detainees/inmates.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 3 Chapter 1 MEDIA OPERATIONS Section 1A—Purpose and Objectives of Media Operations 1.1.  Purpose  of  Media  Operations.  Media  operations  are  essential  for  achieving  the  Public Affairs  (PA)  core  competencies  of  trusted  counsel  to  leaders,  Airman  morale  and  readiness, public trust and support, and global influence and deterrence.  Engaging with the media is often one  of  the  most  rapid  and  credible  means  of  delivering  the  commander’s  message  to  a  desired audience.    Experience  shows  that  working  proactively  with  the  media  increases  trust  and  two-way  communication  with  the  media  and  the  public.    Remaining  transparent,  honest,  and accessible  to  the  maximum  extent  possible  normally  results  in  greater  accuracy,  context,  and timeliness  in  communicating  with  internal  and  external  audiences.    Releasing  official information through the media can help create, strengthen, or preserve conditions favorable for the  advancement  of  national  interest  and  policies,  as  well  as  mitigate  any  adverse  effects  from unofficial, misinformed, or hostile sources. 1.2.  Objectives of the Air Force Media Operations Program. 1.2.1.  Inform  desired  audiences  with  Air  Force  messages  and  information  to  achieve specified effects. 1.2.2.  Exercise the Air Force’s responsibility to “maximum disclosure, minimum delay.” 1.2.3.  Help establish and maintain relationships with key publics through the media. 1.2.4.  Help  build  public  understanding,  trust,  and  support  for  Air  Force  operations, programs, and initiatives. Section 1B—General Release of Information 1.3.  Responsibilities.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  Office  of  Public  Affairs  (SAF/PA) director  is  the  coordination  authority  for  all  Air  Force  media  activities  and  issues  that  have national  or  international  implications,  excepting  Air  Force  operations  performed  in  support  of joint  or  combined  operations.  Senior  commanders  are  responsible  for  releasing  information within their purview. Even though material is unclassified or has been cleared through security and  policy  review  channels,  do  not  give  it  to  the  public  unless  the  commander  (or  the commander’s  authorized  PA  representative)  approves  it  for  that  purpose.  See  Air  Force  Policy Directive 35-1, Public Affairs Management, for more detailed policy information on authorities. 1.3.1.  All  military  and  civilian  personnel  must  comply  with  the  Secretary  of  Defense’s (SECDEF)  Principles  of  Information  mandate  of  “maximum  disclosure,  minimum  delay,” thereby  assuring  commanders  and  PA  staffs  of  rapid,  accurate,  and  continuous  flow  of information  to  the  public  (T-0).    See  DODD  5122.05,  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  for Public Affairs, for more information. The following are guidelines Air Force PA offices can use to implement this mandate: 1.3.1.1.  Present Air Force information professionally, simply, and honestly. 1.3.1.2.  Be accurate, prompt, and factual.  4 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 1.3.1.3.  Confine the information to field of expertise. 1.3.1.4.  Avoid the hypothetical and speculative. 1.3.1.5.  Reflect Air Force policy. 1.3.2.  Spokesperson Requirements. Formulation and promulgation of Air Force policy is an official responsibility and may be performed only by military or civilian officials of the Air Force. In accordance with DODI 5122.05, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, PA  is  the  sole  release  authority  to  the  media  for  official  information  and  serves  as  the principal spokesperson on behalf of the commander. 1.3.2.1.  Contract PA and non-government employees are not authorized to: 1.3.2.1.1.  Act  as  official  Air  Force  spokespersons,  including  being  interviewed  as subject matter experts; or 1.3.2.1.2.  Serve  as  approval  authorities  for  the  release  of  information  such  as  press releases,  articles,  imagery,  or  any  content  published  to  a  publicly  available  website.  Only  a  government  employee  can  be  the  approval  authority  for  public  release  of information. 1.3.3.  Classified Information. Do not release classified information. See paragraph 1.20 for circumstances when exposure to sensitive or classified information is allowed. Consult DOD Manual  5200.01,  Vol.  1-4  DOD  Information  Security  Program;  AFI  31-401,  Information Security Program Management, and AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process. These publications  tell  how  to  classify,  downgrade,  and  declassify  information;  who  may  release and receive certain information; what to do before telling the public about weapons systems; how  to  challenge  the  classification  of  material;  and  how  open  publication  affects  classified material. 1.3.3.1.  Commanders  will  inform  PA  on  all  significant  operational,  programmatic,  and administrative issues affecting the organization, including any classified aspects. (T-1). 1.3.3.2.  Commanders must ensure unfavorable information  is  not  classified or withheld simply to avoid criticism of the Air Force. (T-0). 1.3.4.  In  accordance  with  DOD  Instruction  5405.03,  Development,  Submission,  and Approval  of  Proposed  Public  Affairs  Guidance  (PPAG),  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  to  the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (OSD/PA) requires units to submit PPAG for military operations,  exercises  and  events  that  have  the  potential  to  attract  national  and  international media  attention  due  to  their  size,  importance  or  political  sensitivities,  or  for  PAGs  that require department-to-department level interagency coordination. 1.3.4.1.  The Air Force unit responsible for the operation, exercise or event will draft the PPAG and forward to their MAJCOM or direct to SAF/PA with MAJCOM included, if timing  is  critical.  (T-0).  SAF/PA  will  facilitate  coordination  with  OSD/PA  and  other involved agencies, as appropriate. 1.3.4.2.  See DODI 5405.03 for format guidelines. 1.3.4.3.  The format for Air Force-level PAG may be modified as prescribed by SAF/PA.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 5 1.4.  Freedom  of  Information  Act  (FOIA)  and  Privacy  Act  (Title  5,  United  States  Code, Section 552a). Federal law, Department of Defense (DOD) and Air Force policy requires that AF Commanders  must  ensure  prompt  and  accurate  disclosure  of  information  to  the  public.  (T-0).  The  following  documents  are  important  for  PA  to  learn  the  parameters  of  the  FOIA  (Title  5, United States Code, Section 552) and Privacy Act in DOD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program; Website: http://www.foia.af.mil/; DOD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, and AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. The  FOIA  mandates  maximum  release  of  information.  According  to  DOD,  the  commander, through  PA  and  with  the  advice  of  the  Staff  Judge  Advocate  (SJA),  should  provide  media-releasable information without forcing news media representatives to go through FOIA channels. Since  the  implementation  of  FOIA  policy  is  affected  by  a  number  of  policy  memos  and  other controlling  documents  that  are  updated  with  greater  frequency  than  the  applicable  laws  and directives, always consult the local SJA, the Privacy Act office, and the DOD policy letters when releasing personal information. 1.4.1.  Inspector  General  Cases.  News  media  requests  for  IG  records  are  processed  through the  FOIA  office,  IAW  AFI  90-301,  Inspector  General  Complaints  Resolution,  paragraph 1.46. PA is responsible for informing media officials of the proper procedures for obtaining IG records through FOIA channels. 1.4.2.  Withholding  of  Information  that  Personally  Identifies  DOD  Personnel.  Release  of information  on  DOD  personnel  is  limited  to  the  names,  official  titles,  organizations,  and work telephone numbers for personnel only at the office director level or above, provided a determination  is  made  that  disclosure  does  not  raise  security  or  privacy  concerns.  This requires the SJA to provide advice in a timely manner. However, media representatives can request information under FOIA, completely bypassing PA. FOIA channels take longer than PA due to administrative procedures, and the FOIA office does not provide explanations or answer questions. In cases where news media representatives submit FOIA requests but PA can  provide  more  information  in  a  more  rapid  timeframe,  the  FOIA  and  PA  offices  should coordinate responses. 1.4.3.  Rights  of  living  relatives  and  associates  of  deceased  Air  Force  personnel  should  be considered. The Privacy Act and the privacy exemptions of FOIA do not protect the personal privacy of deceased persons. Records about  the deceased, however, may  be withheld under FOIA or the Privacy Act to protect the privacy of living relatives and associates if the records contain private, personal information about the family or others that would adversely affect a recognized privacy right of living individuals, as defined by the Privacy Act. 1.4.4.  The  Privacy  Act  was  designed  to  protect  individuals.  It  may  prevent  the  Air  Force from disclosing information to the news media even though an individual may have already chosen to voluntarily discuss Privacy Act matters with reporters. If individuals want the Air Force to assist the news media with a particular matter, they can waive their rights under the Privacy  Act  by signing  a Privacy  Act  release. On a case-by-case basis, PA should consider the option of contacting the individual to offer a Privacy Act release. This release document must be signed and dated by the individual waiving his or her rights. (T-0).  PA is advised to consult  and  coordinate  the  release  with  the  SJA  prior  to  signature,  and  individuals  are advised to consult legal assistance before signing the release.  6 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 1.4.4.1.  While a Privacy Act release statement can be tailored, an example of a Privacy Act  release  statement  is:  "I  hereby  authorize  Air  Force  officials  to  disclose  any information  about  me,  whether  or  not  protected  by  the  Privacy  Act,  Freedom  of Information Act, or any Air Force directives to [specific news organization or person] in response to [his/her] interest in my case." 1.5.  Special  Policy.  Policies  come  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  Headquarters  Air Force,  and  some  special  policies  govern  the  release  of  information.  Major  commands (MAJCOMs) can provide additional guidance, as needed. 1.6.  Published,  Released  or  Cleared  Information. Do not  assume information  about  the Air Force  has  been  officially  released  simply  because  it  appears  in  the  media.  Likewise,  do  not assume a member’s personal information, such as home of record or marital status, is releasable because  it  is  posted  on  the  member’s  social  media  page.    Neither  does  the  appearance  of classified  information  in  the  public  realm  mean  it  is  now  unclassified,  nor  can  it  be  used  or referred  to  by  Air  Force  spokespersons.  Operational  or  technical  information  combined  for  re-release  is mandated to meet the same release standards as the original information. 1.7.  Air  Force  People  .  Occasions  may  arise  when  special  directives  control  releasable information about individuals under certain conditions. For additional guidance on the release of casualty information see paragraphs 1.25 and  2.6. The following guidelines apply to the release of information (T-0): 1.7.1.  Address. Home of record, home address and home telephone number generally are not releasable. 1.7.2.  Administrative  Actions.  Administrative  discharge  boards  or  aviator  flight  boards generally are not releasable. Selective early retirement boards and reduction in force boards are boards affecting individuals and are not generally releasable. 1.7.3.  Age and Date of Birth. This information is generally not releasable without consent of the member. It is permissible to release ages of deceased Airmen. 1.7.4.  Biographies and Photographs of Key Persons. Official photographs and biographies of general  officers  and  key  military  and  civilians  maintained  according  to  official  biography requirements are releasable. For people other than these individuals, official photographs and biographies  generally  are  not  releasable,  unless  approval  from  individual  is  given.  In  the event of death, family permission should be sought and granted. 1.7.5.  Death of Civilian Employee or Military Personnel. See AFI 36-809, Civilian Survivor Assistance,  for  more  details  on  civilian  employees.  The  apparent  cause  of  death  (i.e. homicide,  suicide)  generally  is  not  releasable  until  the  investigation  is  completed  and  after consultation with the investigative agency. Any news releases and interviews cannot include tentative  or  speculative  conclusions  or  use  terms  such  as  “homicide,”  “suicide,”  or  “self-inflicted.” Comments concerning the death should be limited to, “The cause of death is under investigation  (or  undetermined).”  Release  cannot  be  made  until  24  hours  after  next-of-kin (NOK) notification. 1.7.6.  Discharges. Information regarding discharge status generally is not releasable. Do not release  information  about  honorable,  under  honorable  conditions  (general),  or  under  other than  honorable  conditions  unless  the  affected  person  gives  written  consent.  Note:  If  a  case  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 7 has received extensive publicity, this information may be releasable (consult the local SJA or SAF/PA  for  guidance  in  this  situation.)  If  the  discharge  results  from  a  court-martial,  the record of trial is a public document. The sentence and subsequent clemency action, if any, are releasable. 1.7.6.1  Establishing  and  maintaining  a  professional  working  relationship  with  your installation  JA  office  is  critical  to  maintaining  situational  awareness  on  courts  martial issues  that  may  prove  to  have  significant  media  visibility.  A  collaborative  PA  and  JA relationship  is  essential  to  ensuring  trusted  counsel  to  leaders.  Routinely  review  the  AF JA Docket at www.afjag.af.mil for the latest cases pertaining to specific installations. 1.7.7.  Duty  Location.  Current,  past,  and  future  assignments  are  releasable,  except  sensitive and overseas assignments masked in unit records. Current or future assignments, office and unit  address  and  duty  telephone  number  for  personnel  or  units  stationed  overseas  or  for routinely deployable or sensitive units are generally not releasable. 1.7.8.  Duty  Status.  Releasable:  active  duty,  retired,  etc.  The  following  information concerning  duty  status  is  also  releasable:  military  grade  and  rank,  civilian  grade,  military basic  pay,  civilian  gross  salary,  and  all  allowances  except  basic  allowance  for  housing (BAH). Also releasable: duty telephone number, date of rank (DOR), entered active duty date (EAD), pay date, source of commission and promotion sequence number, Air Force specialty code  (unless  operational  security  considerations  warrant  withholding  a  specific  duty description), position title, office, unit address, and professional military education. See AFI 33-332,  The  Air  Force  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Program,  for  other  items  that  are releasable, not requiring consent under the Privacy Act Program. 1.7.9.  Education.  Information  concerning  civilian  educational  degrees  and  major  areas  of study, school and year of graduation generally is not releasable without written consent of the member. 1.7.10.  Employers  of  Air  Force  Reserve  or  Air  National  Guard  Members.  Not  releasable without the consent of the Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard member. 1.7.11.  Family  Members.  Family  member  information,  including  number,  age,  gender,  or names of family members, are not releasable. 1.7.12.  Gender. Releasable. 1.7.13.  General Officer Assignments. General officer assignments are announced by Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (OSD/PA) in coordination with the  White  House  and  other  agencies  or  departments.  Note:  An  assignment  within  a MAJCOM or Field Operating Agency (FOA) may be announced by the MAJCOM or FOA commander after HQ USAF has published orders on the assignment. 1.7.14.  Marital Status. Marital status (single, divorced, married, widowed, etc.) is generally not releasable. 1.7.15.  Military Awards and Decorations or Citations. Releasable. 1.7.16.  Military  Personnel  Records.  See  AFI  36-2608,  Military  Personnel  Records  System. Personnel  board  decisions  should  follow  this  rule:  Actions  that  affect  groups,  such  as promotion boards or augmentation boards, generally are releasable.  8 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 1.7.17.  Name. Releasable within guidelines described within this AFI and AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. 1.7.18.  Names  of  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  aircrew  members involved  in  incidents  under  investigation  by  the  Federal  Aviation  Administration  (FAA)  or National  Transportation  and  Safety  Board  (NTSB)  are  generally  not  releasable  during  the investigation.  Air  Force  policy  is  for  crewmembers  to  assist  FAA  by  using  their  assigned radio  call  signs.  Coordinate  responses  to  such  queries  with  the  Operations  Group Commander. See Chapter 2, Crisis Communication, AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, for more information. 1.7.19.  Prisoners.  Base  releases  about  stockade  or  guardhouse  prisoner  escapes,  unusual incidents,  or  disturbances  in  local  confinement  facilities  enhance  relations  with  the  general public  and  the  news  media.  Limit  release  to  information  on  the  Department  of  Defense (DOD)  Form  553,  Deserter/Absentee  Wanted  by  the  Armed  Forces  except  for  those  blocks specifically prohibited [e.g., blocks 5n (SSN) and 16 (Relatives and/or Persons Known)]. 1.7.20.  Prisoners of War and Missing in Action (POW/MIA). OSD/PA regulates information release for POW/MIA situations. Since hostilities and conditions of peace vary, information policy changes periodically. 1.7.21.  Race or National Origin. Generally releasable. 1.8.  Accidents  and  Safety.  See  Chapter  2,  Crisis  Communication,  and  AFI  91-204,  Safety Investigations  and  Reports,  AFI  51-503,  Aerospace  Accident  Investigations,  and  AFI  51-507, Ground Accident Investigations. 1.9.  Pre-Trial  Publicity.  Legal  directives  provide  detailed  guidance  concerning  the  types  of releasable  information  before  a  trial.  In  all  cases,  closely  coordinate  with  the  installation  SJA before  releasing  information.  Serious  charges  are  newsworthy;  especially  those  that  directly  or indirectly  concern  the  public.  These  may  include  flying  violations,  aircraft  accidents,  and nonmilitary offenses such as larcenies and assaults allegedly committed by Air Force people in the  community. the  AF  SJA  Docket  at www.afjag.af.mil  for  current  cases.  Air  Force  guidance  for  releasing  information  on  criminal proceedings is that: Installation  PAs  should  routinely  review 1.9.1.  Media  representatives,  as  members  of  the  public,  may  attend  open  sessions  of  Air Force courts. 1.9.2.  Cameras,  video  equipment,  and  audio  equipment  are  generally  not  permitted  in  Air Force courtrooms during court sessions (see Manual for Courts-Martial for more guidance). 1.9.3.  News releases should convey that military and civilian courts are similar, based on the principle  that  the  accused  is  presumed  innocent  unless  proven  guilty  beyond  a  reasonable doubt.. 1.9.4.  Releasable material may include: 1.9.4.1.  Names of persons charged with crimes, unless the person is a minor. 1.9.4.2.  Date and nature of the alleged offense, as shown in the court-martial order. 1.9.4.3.  Sentence.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 9 1.9.4.4.  Type  of  punitive  discharge  (if  any)  from  the  Air  Force,  and  whether  it  was executed, suspended, or remitted. 1.9.4.5.  Confinement circumstances or date of release from confinement. 1.9.4.6.  Previous convictions or absence of them. 1.9.4.7.  Findings of guilty or not guilty. 1.9.5.  Avoid  sensationalism,  exaggeration,  and  use  of  the  term  “criminal."  Do  not  use editorial words prejudicial to the accused before trial, such as hit-and-run driver, deserter, or murderer.  Before  conviction,  releases  may  say  the  accused  is  charged  with  the  crime  or alleged to have committed it. Avoid military terms, jargon, clichés, or slang unless in a direct quote. 1.9.6.  Media  interviews  and  telephonic  communication  between  media  and  military detainees/inmates  in  confinement  are  authorized  IAW  DODI  1325.07,  Administration  of Military  Correctional  Facilities  and  Clemency  and  Parole  Authority,  and  AFI  31-205,  The Air  Force  Corrections  System,  if  a  determination  is  made  that  such  interview  or communication serves a legitimate public interest or is in the best interest of the military. 1.9.7.  Do not release the names of minor children or victims. 1.10.  Dissidence.  Dissidence  and  protest  activities  are  rare  in  the  Air  Force.  They  might concern  human  rights,  political  activism,  or  other  causes.  As  a  rule,  protests  arise  from  local grievances.  Problem  resolution  stays  at  that  level  to  be  effective.  Local  commanders  are responsible  for  solving  the  problem.  Consult  with  installation  experts,  such  as  the  equal opportunity  officer,  SJA,  and/or  chaplain.  See  Chapter  2,  Crisis  Communication,  for  more information. 1.11.  Investigations or Reports by Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).  See AFPD  71-1,  Criminal  Investigations  and  Counterintelligence;  AFI  71-101V1,  Special Investigations,  AFI  71-101V2,  Protective  Service  Matters, and  AFI  71-101V4, Counterintelligence. 1.12.  Legal Procedures and Litigation.  See AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation. 1.13.  Force  Structure  Announcements.  As  a  matter  of  policy,  Force  Structure  or  Base Realignment  and  Closure  announcements  are  made  at  HQ  USAF  level.  No  public  comments should  be  made  until  official  announcements  are  made  at  the  headquarters  level  and congressional  notification  has  been  completed.  PAs  should  work  closely  with  the  SJA  and  the manpower  and  organization  experts,  as  well  as  higher  headquarters  (HHQ)  PA,  to  prepare  and coordinate questions and answers and news releases before commenting. 1.14.  Reduction  in  Force  (RIF).  Consult  SAF/PA,  through  the  MAJCOM,  before  releasing any reduction in force information. 1.15.  Scientists and Engineers.  Significant work by Air Force scientists and engineers can be releasable,  but  is  subject  to  security  and  policy  review  requirements.    See  AFI  38-203, Commercial Activities Program, and AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, for more information. 1.16.  Technical  Documents.  See  AFI  61-204,  Disseminating  Scientific  and  Technical Information, and AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, for more information.  10 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 1.17.  Contracts and Contractors’ Releases  . 1.17.1.  Unclassified  Contracts.  Companies  or  institutions  with  unclassified  Air  Force contracts  may  release  information  about  them  unless  the  contract  states  otherwise.  DOD 5220.22-R,  Industrial  Security  Regulation,  governs  release  of  information  by  colleges  and universities holding unclassified research and development contracts or letters of intent. The following may be released without further DOD approval: 1.17.1.1.  A statement that the contract, letter of intent, or supplement agreement has been received.  Certain  types  of  contracts  (such  as  proposals  for  a  new  electronic  system,  a high-altitude research study, etc.) may be released if this information is not limited by the contract. 1.17.1.2.  Information of public or professional interest about the work being done, if this information is not limited by terms of the contract. 1.17.1.3.  Information previously approved for release. 1.17.2.  Classified  Contracts.  Companies  or  institutions  with  classified  Air  Force  contracts prepare  initial  information  announcements  relating  to  new  Air  Force  programs.  DOD 5220.22-M,  National  Industrial  Security  Program  Operating  Manual,  regulates  these announcements.  The  manual  is  an  attachment  to  DD  Form  441,  Department  of  Defense Security Agreement. The agreement enables a company to receive classified contracts and the classified information  to  meet  them. This  agreement prohibits the contractor from  releasing information  that  pertains  to  classified  contracts  or  projects  until  it  is  approved  for  this purpose. The contractor usually sends it directly to the Defense Office of Prepublication and Security Review (DOPSR) for approval. 1.17.2.1.  The  contract  may  specifically  require  the  contractor  to  route  the  proposed release  through  an  Air  Force  organization.  In  this  case,  PA  reviews  and  clears  the information  for  unrestricted  publication.  PA  coordinates  the  proposed  release  with  the appropriate  system  program  office,  security  office,  and  other  interested  agencies.  If  a non-DOD agency awards the classified contract or project to the contractor, requests for information release are sent to that agency. Section 1C—Release of Information on Operational Subjects 1.18.  Alert  Status.  Information  concerning  changes  of  alert  status  or  defense  readiness condition  (DEFCON)  may  be  released  only  by  SAF/PA  and  only  after  coordination  with OSD/PA.  In  addition,  PA offices  at  all levels  are notified at  once by their local  command post when  there  are  changes  in  alert  status.  The  local  force  protection  condition  (FPCON)  may  be released to the general public if conditions affect the local community. For example, if the base will be closed or a security check at the gate will be instituted causing disruption to local traffic patterns,  release  the  information.  However,  do  not  release  the  steps  taken  during  a  FPCON except to say that the unit is increasing its vigilance. Consult MAJCOM/PA offices for additional guidance. 1.19.  Deployments. 1.19.1.  Releasable  information.  Release  guidance  from  SAF/PA  or  MAJCOM/PA  usually precedes a deployment. However, if it is obvious the unit has departed, confirm the obvious  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 11 but  notify  SAF/PA  or  MAJCOM/PA  of  the  information  release.  Unless  directed  otherwise, the following items of information are releasable: 1.19.1.1.  Arrival of U.S. units in the commander’s area of responsibility once announced by DOD or the combatant command. 1.19.1.2.  Date  of  the  unit’s  departure  from  home  station  after  the  unit  has  reached  its deployed location. 1.19.1.3.  Home station. 1.19.1.4.  Approximate  friendly  force  strength  deployed  (multi-squadron,  group,  wing--not how many people). 1.19.1.5.  Approximate friendly casualty and POW figures. 1.19.1.6.  Approximate number of enemy personnel detained. 1.19.1.7.  Non-sensitive, unclassified information regarding past and present operations. 1.19.1.8.  In  general  terms,  identification  and  location  of  military  targets  previously attacked and types of ordnance expended, once released by the combatant commander. 1.19.1.9.  Date, time, or location of previous conventional missions and their results. 1.19.1.10.  Number  of  combat  air  patrol  or  reconnaissance  missions  or  sorties  flown  in the operational area. 1.19.1.11.  Weather and climate conditions. 1.19.1.12.  If appropriate, allied participation by type of units (ground units, aircraft). 1.19.1.13.  Conventional operations’ unclassified code names. 1.19.1.14.  Deployed units and locations. Check specific theater PA guidance. 1.19.1.15.  Type of equipment, including aircraft, unless classified. 1.19.1.16.  General personal interest stories. 1.19.1.17.  General  stories  of  training  facilities,  methods,  etc.,  when  not  classified  and when they would not indicate future operational planning. 1.19.1.18.  General scope and duration of air training performed. 1.19.1.19.  Battle damage may be described as “light,” “moderate,” or “heavy.” 1.19.2.  Not releasable. The following items of deployment information are not releasable: 1.19.2.1.  Classified aspects of equipment, procedures, and operations. 1.19.2.2.  Name of the operation, until released by the combatant commander. 1.19.2.3.  Information placing future operations in jeopardy. 1.19.2.4.  Information which could place people’s lives at risk. 1.19.2.5.  Information that, if released, would violate host nation or allied agreement and sensitivities. 1.19.2.6.  Information that would reveal intelligence methods and sources.  12 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 1.19.2.7.  Information  that  would  reveal  intelligence  targeting  and  battle  damage assessments. 1.19.2.8.  Specific  numbers  of  deployed  troop  strength,  aircraft,  weapons  systems,  on-hand equipment, or supplies available, unless otherwise stated in HHQ PA guidance. 1.19.2.9.  Information  that  would  reveal  details  of  future  plans,  operations,  or  strikes, including postponed or canceled operations. 1.19.2.10.  Information or imagery that would reveal specific location of forces. 1.19.2.11.  Information or imagery that would reveal the level of security at deployment sites or installations. 1.19.2.12.  Datelines  showing  specific  countries  when acknowledged their participation in the operation. those  countries  have  not 1.19.2.13.  Rules of engagement. 1.19.2.14.  Details of training of specialized units. 1.19.2.15.  Details of techniques, results, efficiency, etc., of forces involved. 1.19.2.16.  Destination, unless initially released by OSD/PA. 1.19.2.17.  Point of origin for an operational mission for an attack. 1.19.2.18.  Information on the effectiveness of weapon systems and tactics. 1.19.2.19.  Specific  identifying  information  on  missing  or  downed  aircraft  while  search and rescue operations are ongoing. 1.19.2.20.  Special  operations’  unique  methods,  equipment,  or  tactics  that,  if  disclosed, could harm mission accomplishment. 1.19.2.21.  Information on operational or support vulnerabilities. 1.19.2.22.  Specific methods and tactics, speeds, and formations. 1.19.2.23.  Information  that,  in  combination,  identifies  the  who,  what,  and  when  of  a deployment.    For  example,  combining  individual  names,  deployment  locations,  and deployment dates is not authorized for release. 1.19.3.  Movement  of  Units.  As  previously  mentioned,  release  guidance  from  HHQ  PA usually  precedes  a  deployment,  but  if  it  is  obvious  that  a  unit  has  departed,  confirm  the obvious but notify the HHQ PA office. 1.19.3.1.  Continental United States (CONUS) to Overseas. Information on the movement of  Air  Force  units  to  overseas  areas  must  be  released  initially  by  OSD/PA,  unless delegation  is  authorized.  SAF/PA  will  immediately  notify  MAJCOM/PA  offices  that such  a  release  is  being  made.  The  time  and  content  of  the  release  are  included  in  this notification. In addition, guidance on releasing any information subsequent to the initial release  is  incorporated.  This  guidance  applies  to  all  commands  affected  by  the  move, even  if  the  unit  is  only  passing  through.  MAJCOM/PA  offices  will  disseminate  the guidance immediately to their affected units. Unit  PAOs and commanders must comply strictly  with  the  policy  outlined  in  the  notification,  deviating  from  it  only  when specifically authorized by SAF/PA. (T-1).  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 13 1.19.3.2.  Within  Overseas  Areas.  Within  overseas  areas,  movement  releases  are governed by instructions issued by the theater commander. 1.19.3.3.  Within  CONUS.  For  unit  movements  within  the  CONUS,  the  following information is releasable: 1.19.3.3.1.  Designation of Unit. 1.19.3.3.2.  Name  and  location  of  new  station,  assembly  point,  training  area,  etc., within the U.S., unless the movement itself or new station is classified. 1.19.3.3.3.  Departure  date,  if  routing  for  training  and  details  of  movement  are  not classified. 1.19.3.3.4.  General  information  necessary  for  local  civic  relations,  such  as  housing, recreation, etc. 1.19.3.3.5.  On  arrival  at  new  station  within  the  United  States,  resume  normal  PA activities. 1.20.  Access  to  Sensitive  Information.  Unit  commanders  may  determine  that  coverage  of  a story will involve exposure to sensitive or classified information, but is in the best interests of the Air  Force  if  ground  rules  can  be  established  to  restrict  publishing  classified  information  in reporting  or  discussion.  (T-1).  The  primary  safeguard  is  to  brief  the  reporter  in  advance  about what information is sensitive and what the parameters are for covering this type of information. The  commander  may  grant  access  if  the  reporter  agrees  to  a  security  and  policy  review  of  the communication product. Agreement to a security and policy review in exchange for this type of access  is  strictly  voluntary;  however,  if  a  reporter  does  not  agree,  then  access  to  sensitive information may be denied. If a reporter agrees to a security and policy review, it is conducted solely to ensure that sensitive or classified information is not included in the product. 1.21.  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  or  Reconnaissance  Activities.  News  releases  will  not  be made regarding intelligence activities, except as authorized by SAF/PA. 1.22.  Chemical, Biological and Radiological Warfare.  Air Force PA material that deals with chemical, biological, or radiological warfare must be cleared by OSD/PA, through SAF/PA. 1.23.  Simulated  Employment  of  Nuclear  Weapons  on  Maneuvers  and  Training Exercises.  The fact that a particular maneuver or exercise involves the simulated employment of nuclear weapons may be released to news media as the maneuver or exercise commander deems necessary. Commanders must ensure the technique required in the use of any nuclear weapon is not released. (T-0). 1.24.  Personnel  Wounded  in  Combat.  PA  must  exercise  care  in  releasing  information  and photographs of personnel wounded in action or hospitalized for other reasons. (T-1). See AFI 35-109,  para  2.5.3.  Visual  Information,  for  additional  details  on  imagery  release  procedures.  The governing  concerns  are  patient  welfare,  patient  privacy,  and  next  of  kin/family  considerations. OSD/PA,  unless  it  delegates  authority  to  the  combatant  command  PA,  issues  an  initial  news release acknowledging that combat injuries have occurred. After the initial release, the  services may release additional information on casualties, consistent with the Privacy Act. 1.25.  Casualties.  The  term  casualty  can  indicate  either  injured  or  deceased  personnel. Commanders  must  ensure  IAW  with  DoDI  1300.18,  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Personnel  14 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 Casualty  Matters,  Policies,  and  Procedures,  no  casualty  information  on  deceased  military personnel  may be released to  the media or the  general  public until  24 hours after notifying the next-of-kin  regarding  the  casualty  status  of  the  member  (T-0).  Information  on  ill  or  injured Airmen may not be released without the consent of the individual, unless the release is otherwise authorized by the Privacy Act. In the cases of service members who have been unaccounted for from  past  conflicts,  public release  cannot  occur  until  24 hours after the  next  of kin  accepts  the member’s identification or 24 hours after the next of kin has been notified that the Armed Forces Identification  Review  Board  has  upheld  the  identification.  For  more  guidance  on  releasable information, see paragraph 1.7. 1.25.1.  Medical  Care  Facilities. Media visits are authorized to  medical  care facilities. They are approved by the medical facility commander and attending physician, and done without interference  to  medical  treatment.  Patients  are  not  to  be  photographed  if  they  can  be identified  in  the  photo,  or  interviewed,  without  informed  signed  consent.  Informed  signed consent is also required for medical staff to release information about patients. PA escorts the media while at the medical facilities. 1.25.2.  Unit  casualties  and  losses.  Information  on  unit  casualties  and  losses  should  be described  in  general  terms  only,  e.g.,  light,  moderate,  heavy.  The  use  of  percentages, numbers  of  aircraft  damaged  or  destroyed,  buildings,  facilities,  vehicles,  etc.,  will  not  be released  without  approval  of  the  combatant  commander,  a  designated  representative,  or OSD/PA. (T-0). 1.25.3.  Aeromedical  Evacuation  Flights.  Media  requests  to  travel  aboard  aeromedical evacuation flights are considered on a case-by-case basis. For more information and request procedures, see paragraph 1.38.3.2.  1.25.4.  Transfer of casualties to the United States. Media visits to Dover Air Force Base are authorized with primary Next of Kin approval, based upon the Secretary of Defense’s March 25,  2009  memo,  “DOD  Policy  Regarding  Media  Access  to  Dignified  Transfers  at  Dover AFB.”    Media  visit  requests  should  be  coordinated  with  the  Air  Force  Mortuary  Affairs Operations (AFMAO) PA office. 1.26.  Casualty Notification to Next of Kin (NOK).  Although not an official part of a casualty notification  team,  in  cases  with  high  potential  for  media  interest,  PA  has  a  valuable  role  in assisting with Air Force casualty NOK notification. 1.26.1.  Responsibilities. 1.26.1.1.  PA  should  assess  the  media  climate  and,  in  potentially  high  visibility  cases (combat  related,  mass  casualties,  homicides,  etc.)  or  duty  status-whereabouts  unknown (DUSTWUN),  missing  or  captured,  advise  the  commander  of  the  likelihood  of  news media contacting the family members of the deceased Airman and offer PA support to the family. 1.26.1.2.  The  local  commander  or  notification  officer  may  request  that  PA  accompany the  NOK  notification  team  when  there  are  indications  of  high  media  interest  and  the possibility of news media contacting the deceased’s family members directly.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 15 1.26.1.3.  The  PA  representative  should  travel  with  the  NOK  notification  team  but standby  while  the  official  notification  is  made  to  the  family  and  remain  available  if  the family requests PA advice or support. 1.26.1.4.  After  the  NOK  notification  is  completed,  the  notification  officer  will  provide the  family  an  installation-specific  PA  Media  Background  Information  Paper  (T-3).  The PA  Media  Background  Information  Paper  should  include  the  installation  PA  office contact information as well as a list of services the installation PA office can provide the family  if  there  is  media  interest.  If  requested  by  the  family,  the  PA  office  advises  the family on interaction with the news media, offers assistance with any public statements, and defines the family’s preferences on news media requests for information. 1.26.1.5.  If  the  news  media  is  already  at  the  family’s  residence  or  calling  during  the notification, PA should offer to act as the liaison between the news media and the family, in keeping with the family’s preferences. 1.26.1.6.  Casualty notification officers in remote areas who do not have PA support will provide  the  family  contact  information  for  Air  Force  Personnel  Center’s  Casualty Services the  on-call  PA representative if needed. (T-2).  Casualty  Services  contacts (1-800-433-0048) 1.27.  Unit  Activations,  Inactivations,  Phasedowns,  or  Movements  . A significant change in unit  level  of  operations  is  extremely  important  news  for  local  communities.  This  change  takes place after deliberation at appropriate levels of government. PA personnel will not discuss these subjects without guidance from HHQ PA (T-1). 1.28.  Weapon  Systems.  This  category  includes  aircraft,  missiles,  munitions,  support  systems, subsystems,  and  space  vehicles.  Information  about  the  existence,  characteristics,  potential  or demonstrated  capabilities  of  new  systems,  or  improvements  or  modifications  of  existing  ones must be reviewed by SAF/PA before it is released. The same is true for military applications of nuclear  energy,  and  the  following  types  of  warfare  subjects:  biological,  radiological,  chemical, electronic, and psychological. Section 1D—Working with the Media 1.29.  General  Guidelines.  The  media’s  need  for  rapid,  accurate  information  requires immediate  response  by  Air  Force  officials.  It  is  important  to  understand  media  capabilities, organization, technology, and deadlines. 1.29.1.  Access  to  Installations.  Credentialed  and  authenticated  media  representatives, bloggers,  freelance  writers,  and  photographers  may  visit  Air  Force  installations.  PA  must notify the security forces at the main gate or visitor center and escort media at all times when they are on a military installation (T-2). 1.29.2.  Adverse News. When adverse news occurs, release it quickly and candidly. 1.30.  Exclusive  Requests.  An  exclusive  is  a  reporter’s  request  for  information  that  no  other reporter  has  previously  sought.  It  can  involve  a  minor  or  major  story.  The  Air  Force  allows reporters  to  work  on  exclusives,  but  it  is  obligated  to  provide  the  same  information  to  other reporters. Reporters should be made aware of this policy to avoid misunderstandings. Interviews,  16 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 by  their  nature,  are  exclusive  in  terminology,  i.e.,  quotes  and  statements,  but  not  in  subject  if another reporter requests it. 1.30.1.  Minor  Story.  This  news  is  not  particularly  significant.  Protect  the  reporter’s  story until a similar request comes from another reporter. If this happens, tell the second reporter that  another  media  representative  is  already  working  on  it.  The  second  reporter  probably won’t press the issue. If pressed, provide the same material to the second reporter and inform the first reporter that another individual is also working the story. 1.30.2.  Major  Story.  Do  not  honor  any  request  for  exclusive  information  on  a  truly  major story.  The  Air  Force  must  release  information  on  major  stories  to  all  media  equally.  (T-0). The public’s right to significant news transcends the right of a single reporter who first asked for the information. In-depth feature stories on major issues may be treated exclusively until similar queries come from other reporters or major developments require a general release. 1.31.  Air  Force  Reports  on  News  Programs.  Air  Force  members  may  do  regular  reports  of installation news on local radio or television stations, if the subject matter pertains exclusively to Air Force life and activities. Members will coordinate with the local PA office prior to engaging with the media. (T-1). 1.32.  Review  of  Material.  Do  not  ask  a  reporter  to  send  material  for  review  unless  security considerations are involved. The primary responsibility for protecting classified information lies with the Air Force, not the reporter, and the reporter can justifiably refuse any requests for prior review. The primary safeguard should be to brief the reporter in advance about what information is sensitive and what the parameters are for covering this type of information. 1.33.  Duty  Officer.  PA  offices  should  brief  security  forces,  operations  centers,  and  telephone personnel  on the procedures for contacting the off-duty PA representative. An instruction book should  be  prepared  for  the  off-duty  representative’s  use.  At  a  minimum,  it  should  contain emergency  checklists  and  off-duty  telephone  numbers  of  PA  staff  members  and  key  unit installation  officials.  Instruction  books  are  checked  frequently  to  ensure  instructions  and officials’ names and telephone numbers are current. 1.34.  News  Releases.  The news release is the most common way to deliver information to the media. It may announce news or answer anticipated queries. The news release varies in length, but most often is a page of newsworthy information. 1.35.  Classified  Answers.  If  an  answer  is  classified,  tell  the  reporter  you  cannot  provide  the information because it is classified. If possible, explain why it’s classified. 1.36.  Pooling  Media.  Consider  pooling  when  circumstances  such  as  limited  space  preclude accommodating  all  the  media  wanting  to  cover  a  story.  Keep  in  mind  most  media  dislike  pool arrangements and prefer to do their own reporting. A news pool involves having a representative from  the  media  (or  one  representative  from  the  various  media,  such  as  print,  television,  and radio) cover the story and then feed reports to all media taking part in the pool. Use pools only when circumstances absolutely preclude accommodating all interested media. Always let media decide procedures on how representatives are selected and how stories are distributed. 1.37.  Air Force Visual Information (VI) Support for Media.  The Air Force supports all bona fide print and electronic media (which include traditional and nontraditional media organizations and  their  accredited  representatives)  requests  to  release  visual  information  (which  includes  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 17 combat camera) products when such release meets the responsibility to inform the public and it does  not  compromise  national  security.  Releasable  materials  are  equally  available  to  all interested  media.  Previously  cleared  Air  Force  stock  audiovisual  materials  or  location photography  on  Air  Force  facilities  are  provided  to  media  without  charge  (DIMOC,  DVIDS, etc.) when used for news projects. 1.38.  Media Public Affairs Travel. 1.38.1.  Media  Travel  Objectives.  Media  travel  is  one  of  the  Air  Force’s  most  credible  PA tools.  Properly  planned  and  coordinated,  media  travel  can  dramatically  expand  a  media representative’s  understanding  of  the  Air  Force’s  mission,  equipment,  and  people.  Most media  travel  requests  are  for  air  transportation.  This  section  only  addresses  policies  and procedures  related  to  air  transportation.  DOD  4515.13-R,  Air  Transportation  Eligibility, authorizes media travel aboard DOD-owned aircraft. Commanders will not commit Air Force transportation prior to obtaining approval from proper authorities. (T-1). 1.38.2.  Specific Approval Authority for Media Travel. See Table 1. Table 1.1.  Specific Approval Authority for Media Travel Event Participants Local Travel – Local/Regional-level participants(6) (CONUS) Local Travel – National/ International-level participants(6) News Media News Media     (CONUS) Local Travel – Foreign Nationals News Media Participation Approval MAJCOM/PA(1)(2)Operational Approval   MAJCOM/CC(1) MAJCOM/PA MAJCOM/CC(1) Inform:  SAF/PA(2) Consult SAF/PA for current procedures.(7) MAJCOM/CC(1) (CONUS) Non-Local Travel – Local/Regional-level participants (CONUS) News Media MAJCOM/PA(2) MAJCOM/CC      18 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 Non-Local Travel – National/ International-level participants (CONUS) Non-Local Travel – Foreign Nationals News Media  News Media (CONUS) Intertheater Travel –  News Media (CONUS to OCONUS) Intertheater Travel News Media (OCONUS to OCONUS) Intratheater Travel – News Media (OCONUS) MAJCOM/PA (2) Inform:  SAF/PA   Consult SAF/PA for current procedures.(7) MAJCOM/CC MAJCOM/CC (3), OSD/PAAffected Theater  Air Component (4)   PAs(e.g. AFCENT/PA) OSD/PAAffected Theater Air Component (5), (4) PAs(e.g. USAFE/PA, AFCENT/PA) Theater Air Component PA (e.g. USCENTCOM/PA or AFCENT/PA) The CC with air asset OPCON, Contact theater PA and AMC/PA for guidance. The CC with air asset OPCON, most likely AMC/CC. Contact theater PA and AMC/PA for guidance. The CC with air asset OPCON, (e.g. C/JFACC for tactical airlifters, AMC/CC for strategic airlifters, C/JSOACC for special operations aircraft). Contact theater PA and AMC/PA for guidance. Notes: 1. May be delegated to wing commander via MAJCOM commander memo of delegation authority. 2. MAJCOM/PA will inform higher headquarters. 3. OSD/PA approval portion may be delegated to Service PA (e.g. SAF/PA). Approval must still be obtained from air component public affairs in affected theaters of operation. 4. Theater Air Component approval is obtained through the theater/country clearance process initiated during the Aircraft and Personnel Automated Clearance System (APACS) process.  5. May be delegated to theater air component PA offices (e.g. USAFE, AFCENT, PACAF)      AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 19 6. May include an intermediate stop at a locally owned and operated but geographically separated training area. Flight is accomplished within allocated flying hour funding (e.g. training flights authorized).  7. For media requests involving foreign nationals, participants are treated as news media first and foreign nationals second. Established approval levels still apply, but hosting units should contact SAF/PA (via chain of command) to seek additional information on participants. SAF/PA will contact the U.S. State Department, Washington Foreign Press Center, and/or DOD Press Liaison for any relevant information on the news media representative. 1.38.3.  Special Considerations for Media Travel. 1.38.3.1.  Emergencies,  Natural  Disasters.  Consider  providing  transportation  in  the instance of news coverage of an emergency or natural disaster, where the coverage would be impaired or delayed to the serious detriment of the Air Force unless transportation by DOD-owned or controlled aircraft is provided. SAF/PA is the approval authority, unless otherwise noted (See DOD 4515.13-R, C3.4.5.2 for more information). 1.38.3.2.  Aeromedical  Evacuation  (AE)  Flights.  Media  requests  to  travel  aboard aeromedical  evacuation  flights  are  considered  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  Because  these flights  involve  injured  service  members  from  all  branches  of  the  DOD,  requests  are coordinated  with  the  Surgeon  General  PA  for  each  branch  represented.  Because  AMC normally  has  Operational  Control  (OPCON)  of  AE  missions,  AMC/PA  is  the  point  of contact for all services’ SG/PA coordination. Contact AMC/PA, Engagement Division, to route  requests.  AMC  requires  a  minimum  30-day  notice  for  required  AE  coverage approvals. A qualified PA escort is needed for all media travel aboard AE flights. Patients are  not  to  be  photographed  or  interviewed  without  informed  signed  patient  consent. Informed  signed  consent  is  also  required  for  medical  staff  to  release  information  about patients.  See  AFI  35-109,  Visual  Information,  for  additional  details  on  imagery  release procedures. Current consent forms may be obtained from AMC/PA prior to departure. 1.38.3.3.  Deployments  and  major  exercises.  Instead  of  processing  numerous  individual requests  for  overseas  travel  for  media  covering  deployments  and  major  exercises, sponsoring  MAJCOMs  may  request  one-time  blanket  participation  approval  from OSD/PA (unless delegated)  through SAF/PA for media travel supporting coverage of the exercise or deployment. All media travel in conjunction with a deployment must receive operational  approval  from  the  MAJCOM/CC  with  operational  control  of  the  air  assets and be coordinated with the gaining combatant command. Media must have appropriate identification, diplomatic clearances (passport, visas) and equipment. 1.38.3.4.  Media  Travel  Approval  Authorities  between  CONUS  and  OCONUS  (Outside of the Continental United States). 1.38.3.4.1.  Command  Structure.  It  is  important  to  distinguish  travel  between  and within theaters.   Once public affairs travel leaves the CONUS, it becomes subject to the  warfighting  structure  of  command,  no  longer  governed  solely  by  the  Air  Force chain  of  command  or  its  policies  and  procedures.  For  example,  the  distinction between "local" and "non-local" airlift may be meaningless under the command of an external  Unified/Combatant  Commander.    Outside  the  CONUS,  command  extends across  the  services,  defined  either  by  function  (as  with  USTRANSCOM)  or  by  20 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 responsibility geographic  area  of (as  with  USEUCOM,  USPACOM  or USCENTCOM). Below the theater level, forces are broken down again by function. For example, under the warfighting command structure, all air forces -- regardless of service  origination  --  fall  under  the  Joint  or  Combined  Forces  Air  Component Commander (J/CFACC), with few exceptions. Therefore, PA travel is governed by a different  set  of  guidelines  depending  upon  which  commanders  have  OPCON  of  the assets in use or the geographic theater of operations. 1.38.3.4.2.  Intertheater  Travel.  Commanders  will  give  necessary  approval  when intertheater media travel is proposed to affected commander. (T-0). This is achieved as  part  of  the  theater  clearance  process.  See  paragraph  1.38.4.2.1  for  additional guidance on responsibilities. 1.38.3.4.3.  Intratheater  Travel.  Guidelines  for  intratheater  travel  may  differ  greatly from HAF guidelines for CONUS local and non-local travel, becoming either more or less  restrictive.  In  such  cases,  commanders  must  communicate  with  the  appropriate theater-specific PA staff to obtain current guidance. (T-0). In most cases, the theater commander's  PA  staff  will  coordinate  approvals  and  airlift  requirements  within  the commander's purview. (T-0). 1.38.3.4.4.  Understanding who has OPCON over Air Assets in Theater. Although the J/CFACC  will  set  guidelines  for  media  airlift  within  the  specified  theater  of operations,  he  or  she  may  not  have  OPCON  of  all  air  assets  transiting  the  theater.  Strategic airlift assets, such as C-5s and C-17s, generally remain under the OPCON of AMC/CC and not the J/CFACC. Therefore, prior to offering media airlift on strategic assets,  commanders  must  obtain  operational  approval  from  AMC/CC,  coordinating with  AMC/PA.  (T-1).  This  happens  primarily  when  news  media  request  airlift  to cover  a  story  only  after  arriving  in  the  theater  of  operations  via  commercial  airline.   If  media  arrived  via  strategic  airlift  as  part  of  an  already approved, Air Force-sponsored media trip, this coordination has already occurred and does not need to be reaccomplished.  Tactical  airlift  assets,  such  as  C-130s,  generally  fall  under  the OPCON  of  the  J/CFACC  and  only  meet  those  approval  requirements  set  within  the theater of operations. 1.38.3.5.  Tactical Waivers. A tactical waiver is needed for non-aircrew members on Air Mobility  Command  flights  that  involve  airdrop  or  any  situation  where  doors  open  in-flight IAW AMCI 11-208, Tanker Airlift Operations. Non-aircrew members must request tactical  waivers  and  route  through  their  requesting  unit’s  base  operations,  specifically standardization  and  evaluation,  in  accordance  with  MAJCOM-specific  operational supplements and military weapon system-specific AFI guidance. (T-1). Tactical waivers typically require a 12-14 day lead time. PA should ask base operations to route requests with  sufficient  lead  time  and  check  the  status  of  the  request  daily  to  ensure  a  waiver  is granted prior to the date of the flight. 1.38.4.  Submission Guidelines for Hosting Intertheater Media Travel. 1.38.4.1.  General.  In  accordance  with  DOD  4500.54E,  DOD  Foreign  Clearance Program  (FCP),  https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/fcg.cfm,  country/theater  clearance  is needed  from  the  host  nation  and  the  U.S.  Embassy  as  appropriate,  for  travel  to  that country  and  is  granted  by  the  host  nation  and  the  U.S.  Embassy  of  the  country  to  be  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 21 visited.  Theater  clearance  is  needed  for  visits  to  overseas  military  activities  on  matters pertaining to the mission of the regional/geographic combatant command and is granted by the regional/geographic combatant command. It generally requires at least 30 days of advanced notice, and travel to some countries may require more time due to host nation process  requirements.  Many  organizations  associated  with  the  embassy  and  combatant command have a vested interest in media travel and will provide clearance input based on real world events and activities. (T-0). 1.38.4.2.  Responsibilities. 1.38.4.2.1.  Country/theater  clearance  requirements  are  defined  in  the  Foreign Clearance  Guide  (FCG):  https://fcg.pentagon.mil/fcg.cfm/.    Prior  to  requesting clearances the requester should check the FCG for the latest requirements, procedures and  travel  restrictions  in  effect  for  the  location  to  be  visited  as  well  as  those  for transiting  locations.  The  requesting  organization  will  submit  a  formal  request  for country/theater clearance through its MAJCOM/PA using the Aircraft and Personnel Automated  Clearance  System  (APACS)  at      https://apacs.dtic.mil.  APACS  is mandatory  for  processing  DOD-sponsored  official  foreign  travel  in  all  overseas Combatant Commands. (T-0). 1.38.4.2.2.  Once  final  operational  and  participation  approval  is  received,  the organization  with  operational  approval  authority  will  provide  invitational  travel orders/authorization for media members. (T-0). 1.38.4.2.3.  The  requesting  organization  should  obtain  current  guidance  on  media ground rules from the destination theater PA. 1.38.4.2.4.  The  requesting  organization  will  ensure  travelers  obtain  passports  and visas and sign ground rules and a hold harmless  agreement prior to departure  (T-0). Media  members  must  travel  with  the  protective  equipment  required  for  the destination  theater  of  operations.  Protective  equipment  is  NOT  provided  to  News Media  Representatives  (NMR)  by  the  deployed  unit  once  they  arrive  in  theater. Media  members  are  responsible  for  carrying  their  own  personal,  professional  and protective equipment. 1.38.4.2.5.  Failure to have the required documentation or any violation of the ground rules may be a basis for terminating a media representative’s travel status. 1.38.4.2.6.  The unit requesting travel will need to arrange for and fund the PA escort, unless      otherwise  funded  by  contingency  funds  such  as  those  for  Overseas Contingency Operations (T-1). Once assigned, the escort serves as the primary liaison between the NMRs and the Air Force for purposes of the travel. Contact  theater PA staff  for  guidance  on  escort  requirements  and  any  training  needed  before  travel. Escorts are normally required on all intertheater media flights by AMC aircraft. The destination  theater  may  require  that  escorts  follow  certain  theater  reporting procedures, and can advise escorts on the minimum protective gear required for both the escort and NMRs. 1.38.4.3.  Request Procedures.  22 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 1.38.4.3.1.  The  requesting  organization  should  gather  the  following  information required  for  the  travel  request:  reason  for  media  travel;  names,  media  affiliations, social  security  numbers  (SSN),  and  passport  numbers  of  each  media  representative; PAS  Code  and  security  clearance  level  of  PA  escort;  and  a  proposed  itinerary  for coverage theater of operations. Ensure that all Personal  Identification  Information is protected IAW AFI 33-332 The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. 1.38.4.3.2.  The  requesting  organization  forward  this  required  information  to MAJCOM/PA. 1.38.4.3.3.  The MAJCOM/PA of the requesting/hosting unit reviews and submits the country/theater clearance request through APACS in accordance with DOD 4500.54- G, Foreign Clearance Guide. 1.38.4.3.4.  The  MAJCOM/PA  of the participation  approval  request  to  OSD/PA  (unless  delegated)  with  an  information copy to SAF/PA. requesting/hosting  unit  submits the 1.38.4.3.5.  The MAJCOM/PA of the requesting/hosting unit submits the operational approval  request  to  the  MAJCOM  with  OPCON  of  air  assets.  A  copy  of  OSD/PA participation  approval  is  necessary  to  accompany  all  AMC  operational  approval requests for non-local media travel. 1.38.4.3.6.  The  requester  (generally  the  person  on  the  MAJCOM/PA  staff  and APACS  account  holder  who  entered  the  request)  monitors  the  country/theater clearance status in APACS until approved. Section 1E—Magazine and Books Support  1.39.  Books.  SAF/PA and its field offices are the points of contact between the Air Force and book representatives. 1.39.1.  SAF/PA  Responsibilities.  The  New  York  field  office  generally  handles  book activities since most publishers have major offices in that city. These responsibilities include: 1.39.1.1.  Responding to requests for available material on Air Force subjects. 1.39.1.2.  Referring  requesters  to  MAJCOMs,  field  operating  agencies  (FOAs),  and  Air Force record centers and depositories. 1.39.1.3.  Coordinating  and  approving  requests  from  authors  with  Letters  of  Intent  to interview Air Force personnel, visit bases, and participate in media orientation flights. 1.39.2.  MAJCOM Responsibilities. SAF/PA may delegate direct liaison  between Air Force and  book  representatives  to  the  MAJCOM,  FOA,  or  unit  level  (with  MAJCOM  or  FOA coordination and approval) on a case-by-case basis. 1.39.2.1.  Overseas  MAJCOMs  and  FOAs  are liaison  with  foreign  book representatives  covering  subjects  solely  within  their  areas  of  responsibility.  Send  all foreign  magazine  and  book  representatives’  requests  for  material  not  available  at  the overseas location to SAF/PA for coordination, support, or concurrence. Advise overseas-based  foreign  book  representatives  who  request  to  visit  CONUS  installations  to  contact the press office in their respective U.S. embassies. Appropriate MAJCOMs and FOAs are the  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 23 the Air Force focal points for coordination and support after approval by OSD/PA. PA at every  level  may  support  unofficial  Air  Force  authors  as  they  would  support  civilian writers and may review submissions for policy and technical accuracy, if requested. 1.40.  National  Magazine  Story  Ideas.  Placement  of  solid,  mission-oriented  stories  in  the national magazine market is a critical part of the PA mission. 1.40.1.  Without  assigning  production  goals,  MAJCOMs  and  FOAs  should  encourage  PA offices to develop original story ideas for proposal to national and regional magazines. These include  trade,  technical,  fraternal,  consumer  group,  and  industrial  publications.  Stories receive  official  support  when  they  satisfy  Air  Force  PA  requirements;  that  is,  the  topic  is related  to  an  operational  mission  on  an  Air  Force  organization,  or  it  directly  supports  Air Force programs. 1.40.2.  All  PA  people  are  encouraged  to  write  for  national  publications  as  part  of  their official duties. On a voluntary basis, writers may prepare articles while on official duty and be  credited  in  print  with  a  by-line.  Air  Force  people  may  not  accept  payment  for  these articles. 1.40.3.  PAs screen story ideas for accuracy, quality, security, and policy. In addition, PA is responsible  for  quality  control  to  ensure  the  final  product  presents  a  professional  image. Contact SAF/PA for assistance in marketing, when appropriate. 1.40.4.  PA  at  all  levels  may  contact  or  send  story  ideas  or  articles  directly  to  national magazine representatives. Inform SAF/PA of national-level media requests. 1.41.  Payment  and  Honoraria  for  Writing.  Air Force military and civilian professionals  are encouraged  to  write  for  publication.  Air  Force  and  civilian  professionals  are  not  allowed  to receive payment or honoraria for writing produced as part of their official duties. However, they can accept payment and honoraria for writings that are done off duty and are unrelated to their official duties. Consult the servicing staff judge advocate (SJA) for more information, and refer to DOD 5500.7-R. 1.41.1.  Air  Force  people  receive  the  same  service  from  the  PA  office  as  all  other  writers when  they  write  for  profit.  They  cannot  have  access  to  technical  or  operational  military information  not  available  to  all.  They  cannot  receive  payment  for  materials  their  duties require them to provide at no cost. 1.42.  Commercial Use of Published Official Air Force Material.  Official U.S. Government-and  contractor-produced  unclassified  Air  Force  manuals,  symposium  papers,  and  other documents often provide valuable story material for publishers. Excerpts are frequently reprinted commercially. If a publisher requests Air Force documents for this purpose, contact SAF/PAO. 1.43.  Academic  Institutions  .    Guidance  in  this  instruction  applies  to  students  and  faculty  at Air Force academic institutions.  Students and faculty interested in discussing academic research, papers, reports, etc. with the media must coordinate with their local PA office in advance. (T-1). Refer  to  AFI  35-102  for  information  on  security  and  policy  review  requirements  if  the information is proposed for public release.  24 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 Section 1F—Support for Non-Government, Non-Entertainment VI Productions  than  news.  These 1.44.  The information provided in this section relevant to non-government VI productions institutional, other documentary, educational, and commercial enterprise productions. The key is these productions are intended to inform. include  commercial  and  nonprofit industrial, 1.45.  Visual  Information  Guidance.  Per  DODI  5410.15,  DOD  Public  Affairs  Assistance  to Non-Government,  Non-Entertainment-Oriented  Print  and  Electronic  Media,  Air  Force assistance,  access  to  installations,  equipment,  and  personnel  for  interviews,  photo  and  video opportunities, and unclassified VI material may be provided when it is considered beneficial to the  Air  Force  and  DOD  and  is  in  the  national  interest.  See  DODI  5410.15  for  complete information and guidelines. 1.46.  SAF/PA  Responsibilities.  SAF/PA  evaluates  and  approves  support  for  national-level, non-government,  and  non-entertainment  VI  productions.  SAF/PA  determines  if  the  VI production  meets  Air  Force  and  DOD  policy  and  coordinates  with  OSD/PA.  Requests  are generally  supported  when  they  serve  the  Air  Force  interest,  meet  guidelines  in  Air  Force  and DOD  directives,  and  are  not  prohibited  by  legal  or  policy  restrictions.  When  a  national production  involves  more  than  one  MAJCOM,  SAF/PA  coordinates  assistance  to  obtain  or produce the VI material. SAF/PA notifies the requester the project is approved, reiterates project restrictions,  and  arranges  for  release  of  stock  footage  or  puts  the  requester  in  contact  with  the right PA POC. 1.46.1.  SAF/PA  must  approve  support  for  VI  productions  involving  Air  Force-level contracts. 1.47.  MAJCOM  Responsibilities.  MAJCOMs  approve requests. MAJCOMs  review,  evaluate,  and  determine  support  for  VI  productions  judged  as  having regional and local impact only.  MAJCOMs will withhold approval until support is coordinated with  SAF/PA if it  is believed interest  may expand beyond a regional audience. They also  keep SAF/PA appraised of MAJCOM-approved projects. regional  and local 1.48.  Unit  Responsibilities.  When  contacted  by  a  non-government,  non-entertainment  group (other  than  news  media)  seeking  VI  support,  units  forward  requests  through  PA  channels  to MAJCOM PA with a unit recommendation, if appropriate. Provide normal PA assistance in the form  of  advice  or  guidance.  Take  care  to  ensure  no  commitment  of  resources  is  made  without approval. 1.48.1.  Units  approve  requests  for  assistance  from  Air  Force  contractors  when  the  support relates  to  contract  requirements.  Contract-associated  support  should  be  confirmed  with  the contract  administrator.  Requests  relating  to  contractor-sponsored  photography  outside  the scope of the contract are sent through PA channels to SAF/PA. 1.49.  Support Procedures. 1.49.1.  Non-Government, Non-Entertainment VI Productions Other Than News. Productions done  by  organizations  outside  the  federal  government  which  are  primarily  intended  to inform. 1.49.1.1.  SAF/PA  approves  support  to  national-level,  non-government,  and  non-entertainment visual information productions other than news media. MAJCOMs approve  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 25 support on the local  and regional level.  Requesters should submit  requests in  writing as outlined below: 1.49.1.1.1.  Include  detailed  description  of  the  desired  material  stock  footage  or photography (footage format, amount, etc.); desired receipt date (two to four weeks is normal processing time). 1.49.1.1.2.  If  production  support  is  requested,  include  anticipated  specific  support requirements,  such  as  military  manpower  and  equipment  and  projected  production schedule, including filming dates and proposed filming locations. 1.49.1.1.3.  Provide a synopsis or explanation of the product  in  which the Air Force VI material is going to be used. Include a treatment, outline, script, or storyboard for the project. 1.49.1.1.4.  Describe  the  use  of  the  product  to  include  distribution  mode  and  target audience  (e.g.,  national  TV  advertisement;  30-minute  TV  documentary  to  air nationally on PBS; etc.). 1.49.1.1.5.  Include  a  statement  that  the  requested  VI  support  cannot  be  reasonably obtained from commercial or private sources. 1.49.1.1.6.  Provide a statement that the finished product does not imply Air Force or DOD  sponsorship,  approval,  or  endorsement  of  the  organization  or  company,  its products  or  services,  nor  does  it  state  or  imply  Air  Force  or  DOD  support  of  any viewpoint expressed in the product. 1.49.1.1.7.  Ensure  that  SAF/PA  (or  appropriate  level)  is  given  the  opportunity  to review the final product before release. 1.49.2.  Contractor  VI  Productions.  These  are  products  by  Air  Force  and  DOD  contractors such  as  annual  reports,  corporate  in-house  training  videos,  and  promotional  and  marketing productions. 1.49.2.1.  Government  contracts  often  include  VI  productions  that  address  the  contract program.  Contractors  are  responsible  for  seeking  approval  of  their  produced  print  and electronic  promotional,  marketing,  and  advertising  material  before  public  release. Subjects  of  material  that  require  OSD/PA  and  SAF/PA  clearance  are  listed  in  DODD 5230.9,  Clearance  of  DOD  Information  for  Public  Release.  Material  not  requiring OSD/PA  or  SAF/PA  clearance  is  cleared  at  the  lowest  level  competent  to  evaluate  the information. 1.49.2.2.  Contractors  seeking  VI  material  for  a  production  must  certify  in  writing  that funding of the production is  not  billed to  the government  unless the production itself is being done pursuant to a government contract that authorizes such costs. (T-1). 1.49.3.  Commercial  Advertisements.  These  are  requests  by  advertising  agencies  for  Air Force  materials  or  assistance  in  campaigns  designed  to  sell  a  particular  product,  service  or company. 1.49.3.1.  DOD  is  prohibited  from  endorsing  or  appearing  to  endorse  or  selectively benefit any particular product, company, or commercial concern. Because of this, the Air Force  generally  does  not  support  commercial  advertising  unless  the  Air  Force  uses  the  26 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 product or service being advertised. The requester must show a specific tie between the Air Force and the advertised item. (T-0). Proof can be via valid contract numbers or other verifiable  information  that  shows  their  company  does  provide  the  advertised  goods  or services  to  the  Air  Force.  Any  request  for  Air  Force  support  for  a  commercial advertisement is  coordinated through SAF/PA. In all cases, a proposed advertisement is mandated to meet the policy guidelines and the following: 1.49.3.2.  Is factual and in good taste. 1.49.3.3.  Is of some benefit to the Air Force (informational value, enhancement of public understanding, etc.) 1.49.3.4.  Cannot state or imply Air Force endorsement or preference of one product over another. Such terms as “government approved” or “Air Force certified”  can not be used. 1.49.3.5.  Cannot compare the relative merits of current weapons or weapons systems. 1.49.3.6.  Cannot refer to the economic impact of a proposed continuation or cancellation of a defense contract. 1.49.3.7.  Cannot reproduce the Air Force seal or any of its parts, except as authorized by AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications. 1.49.3.8.  Active-duty Air Force military and civilian personnel may not use their title or position to endorse commercial products, services, or activities; assume responsibility for advertising claims; or obtain personal gain.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 27 Chapter 2 CRISIS COMMUNICATION Section 2A—Purpose, Objectives, and Planning 2.1.  Crisis  Communication.  Clear,  concise,  accurate  and  timely  communication  is  critical during a crisis. A crisis is a rapidly developing situation ranging from natural disasters to hostile activities posing a threat to U.S. interests. For OSD/PA, a crisis becomes relevant when it is of a nature that commitment of U.S. military forces and resources is contemplated in order to respond to  the  situation,  or  where  the  situation  directly  affects  military  assets.  PA  must  be  ready  to implement  courses  of  action  to  provide  relevant  audiences  with  accurate,  timely,  and  essential information.  (T-1).  PA  requires  its  trained  professionals  to  have  the  skills  to  engage  the  media and to keep a wide range of publics informed during crises. 2.2.  Objectives of Crisis Communication. 2.2.1.  Establish procedures which prepare PA to handle any crisis communication issue. 2.2.2.  Provide PA rules of engagement for the proper release of information during crisis. 2.3.  Planning  and  Preparation.  MAJCOMs,  FOAs,  and  wings  must  prepare  comprehensive PA accident plans, or supplements to this instruction, for both nuclear and non-nuclear accidents (T-1).  These  plans  include  provisions  for  adequate  personnel,  administrative,  communication, and  logistical  support  for  a  nuclear  accident  or  incident  Immediate  Reaction  Forces  (IRF). MAJCOMs,  FOAs,  and  Wings  must  ensure  plans  comply  with  AFI  10-2501,  Air  Force Emergency  Management  (EM)  Program  Planning  and  Operations,  which  establishes requirements  for  local  responses  and  AFI  91-204,  Safety  Investigations  and  Reports,  which describes  mishap  investigation  management  after  initial  response.  After  the  initial  mishap response, also consult AFI 51-503 or AFI 51-507 for mandatory guidance governing release of status or substantive information regarding mishaps. MAJCOM, FOA and Direct Reporting Unit (DRU)  PAs  should  coordinate  with  SAF/PA  when  activating  accident  plans.  Base-level  PA offices should coordinate with the appropriate MAJCOM/PA, which will notify SAF/PA. 2.3.1.  Unclassified  Information.  It  is  Air  Force  policy  to  give  the  public  unclassified information on all activities subject to the guidance in this AFI. Provide accurate and timely release  of  news--good  and  bad--to  recognized  news  media.  The  Air  Force  will  promptly release  unclassified  facts  about  accidents  and  incidents,  including  near  misses  or  missing aircraft, consistent with national security considerations and responsibilities. (T-1). 2.3.2.  Classified  Information.  Federal  law  and  Executive  Order  12356,  National  Security Information,  require  protection  of  classified  information.  Air  Force  people  must  protect classified information against compromise as required (T-0). The incident commander, with the  advice  of  the  security  forces  representative,  will  provide  initial  guidance  to  the  PA representative when it is determined classified information is involved (T-1). However, there are  limits  to  Air  Force  authority  at  an  accident  site,  particularly  away  from  Air  Force installations. Civilian police enforce Federal, State, and foreign criminal law. 2.4.  Requirements Explained.  28 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 2.4.1.  Media  Operations  Center.  The  commander  will  establish  a  centrally  located  media operations center (MOC), as needed, for news media representatives. (T-3). Do not co-locate the media center and the PA office. The MOC should have the appropriate infrastructure to support anticipated media representatives, plus at least one commercial line for PA personnel only.  Consider  having  an  additional  telephone  line  to  accommodate  media  requirements  in the event cell phone use is limited. 2.4.2.  Straight Talk Line. Consider the establishment of a Straight Talk phone line to provide base personnel with an authoritative point of contact for current, accurate information about the  status  of  any  disturbance,  and  the  command's  actions.  In  addition  to  the  Straight  Talk Line,  PA  personnel  and  augmentees  should  perform  such  tasks  as  preparing  fact  sheets, messages  for  automatic  telephone  answering  devices  (if  used),  e-mail  messages,  Straight Talk web page on the intranet, and news articles for online and print installation newspapers. Also, make updated statements available to base telephone operators.  PA office should also consider  the  use  of  social  media  to  promote  the  Straight  Talk  Line  as  well  as  means  of communicating messages.  For more information on the use of social media, please refer to AFI 35-113, Command Information. 2.4.2.1.  The PA office should publicize the existence of the Straight Talk phone line both before  and  during  an  on-base  disturbance  through  the  command/internal  information program. 2.4.2.2.  When  available,  the  PA  office  should  consider  the  use  of  answering  service systems incorporated into installation telephone exchange facilities for the Straight Talk Line’s automatic answering service. 2.4.3.  First Responders. PA should be prepared to join other base emergency responders as part  of  the  initial  response  element  as  determined  by  local  procedures.  These  forces—typically  fire,  medical,  and  security  members—arrive  as  part  of  the  first  responders  to manage the incident and coordinate with civil authorities. 2.4.3.1.  Emergency Operations Center (EOC). For on-base accidents and incidents, a PA representative should be designated for incident response. 2.4.4.  National Defense Area (NDA). A NDA is the temporary establishment in the United States  of  federal  areas  for  the  protection  or  security  of  DOD  resources  (Title  50,  United States  Code,  Section  797).  If  the  off-base  site  is  designated  as  an  NDA,  PA  supports  news media  representatives  in  the  same  way  as  if  they  were  on  a  military  installation.  Brief  the media on appropriate, disclosable information  during a nuclear accident or incident  and the procedures to be followed, such as escort requirements. 2.4.5.  Emergency Responders. PA staff members must be prepared to join base emergency responders as part of the follow-on forces as determined by the incident commander. (T-1). This  team  will  provide  enhanced  command,  control,  and  communication  functions  at  an incident site (T-1). 2.4.6.  Jurisdiction. In the United States, PAs must respect the jurisdiction and interests of all concerned  government  agencies  at  national,  state,  and  local  levels  to  include  additional coordination which may be required with  the Departments  of Justice and State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) (T-0).  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 29 2.4.7.  Transportation  Requirements.  Mobility  is  vital  during  a  disturbance.  The  PA  office must  request  sufficient  vehicles  and  land  mobile  radios  for  on-base  internal  information program support and vehicles for media through the base disturbance contingency plan. (T-1).  Commanders  will  ensure  PA  personnel  are  certified  to  drive  these  vehicles,  preferably prior to an incident. (T-2). 2.4.8.  Units  without  a  PA  office.  MAJCOM  and  FOAs  must  ensure  that  commanders  of units without a primary duty PAO understand the need to release accident information to the news media on a timely basis and the restrictions on release of certain types of information outlined  in  Chapter  7  of  AFI  51-503  and  AFI  51-507  (T-1).  The  MAJCOM/PA  should ensure  commanders  have  established  notification  procedures  between  the  unit  and  their supporting PA office. 2.4.9.  Crisis  Notification.  Reports  of  operational  incidents  or  events  use  an  Event  and Incident  Report,  OPREP-3.  Commanders  will  ensure  command  post  procedures  exist  to notify  PA  duty  officers  of  known  or  suspected  incidents  or  events.  (T-1).  To  confirm notification, inform the PA duty officer at the next higher level of command of the incident. 2.4.10.  Overseas Precedence. When instructions or plans of a combatant  command conflict with this instruction in procedural detail (such as naming a release authority for confirming a nuclear accident) or with host nation sensitivities, use the combatant command plan. 2.4.11.  Exemption from MINIMIZE. When disturbance contingency plans are implemented, the  commander  may  impose  MINIMIZE  to  reduce  the  flow  of  voice  and  message  traffic. Commanders  must  ensure  requirements  in  MINIMIZE  instructions  include  exemption  of limitation of PA voice and message traffic.  (T-0). These exemptions allow the PA office to meet the rapid response requirements of SAF/PA and OSD/PA. 2.4.12.  Briefing Requirement. DODD 5230.16, Nuclear Accident and Incident Public Affairs (PA)  Guidance,  requires  commanders  to  brief  military  and  civil  law  enforcement,  disaster response,  nuclear  weapons  security  forces,  intelligence  and  operations  officials  at  least annually.  Areas  discussed  should  include  security,  base  plans,  policies,  and  laws.  The sensitive  nature  of  nuclear  accidents  and  incidents  requires  PA,  disaster  preparedness,  and security  forces  officials  to  conduct  active  PA  and  education  programs  with  their  civilian community  counterparts.  See  DODD  5230.16  for  details  regarding  annual  briefings  and meetings. Section 2B—Crisis Procedures and Release of Information 2.5.  Procedures.  In  significant  weapon  system  mishaps,  PAs  should  be  in  place  at  the  PA office, the accident scene, and the installation command post. 2.5.1.  PA  must  ensure  unit  contingency  plans  include  transportation  to  the  accident  site during accidents/incidents (T-3). 2.5.2.  Regardless  of  location,  establish  communication  at  once  between  the  on-scene  PA representative  and  those  at  the  installation.  This  permits  PA  at  the  site  and  those  at  the PA office to coordinate information for release on a timely basis.  30 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 2.5.3.  The  installation  PA  office  must  establish  procedures  to  notify  a  tenant  unit commander of any follow-on PA actions in accidents involving that commander's resources (T-1). 2.5.4.  In accidents or incidents likely to require PA support for extended periods of time, or likely to exceed the capabilities of the responsible PA office, PA will: 2.5.4.1.  Ask  the  next  higher  PA  echelon  for  additional  personnel  and  equipment,  if needed. (T-1). 2.5.4.2.  Set up a 24-hour news media operations center. If other federal, state, and local PA response force officers are on scene, the media center should be a joint operation. (T-1). 2.5.4.3.  Provide  Air  Force  news  releases  about  the  accident  to  state,  local,  or  other officials responsible for informing the public and media, or who need the releases for any other purpose. (T-1). 2.5.4.4.  Anticipate  public  concerns  and  issues  and  produce  news  releases  before  such concerns distort public perceptions. (T-1). 2.5.4.5.  Have  each  PA  staff  member  record  media  and  public  queries  on  AF  Form  39, Response to Query.(T-1). 2.5.4.6.  Use  a  central  events  log  to  record:  Time  of  accident,  important  developments, time  of  releases,  guidance  received  from  higher  PA  echelons  and  how  or  when  it  was implemented, and thumbnail sketches of most significant queries and events. (T-1). 2.5.4.7.  Alert  base  telephone  operators  to  direct  all  news  media  and  public  calls  to  the installation PA phone line in the media operations center. (T-1). 2.5.4.8.  Ensure  MAJCOM  and  Defense  Media  Activity  are  included  as  addressees  on initial information release and other publicly releasable information and images. (T-1). 2.6.  Release  of  Personal  Information.  This  section  provides  guidelines  for  the  release  of personal  information  about  victims  of  accidents,  incidents,  disturbances,  and  disasters.  The installation PA will always consult with the local SJA before releasing personal information. (T-1).  Provisions  of  AFI  51-503  or  AFI  51-507  may  prohibit  or  restrict  release  of  certain information related to aerospace or ground mishaps. 2.6.1.  Names of Survivors. Generally, release the names of all survivors as soon as possible in close coordination with the commander, SJA, and the medical community. The installation PA will make releases quickly, to relieve the fears of people with kin in the accident and also to  ease the concern of families and friends of other individuals flying similar aircraft or on similar duty in the vicinity. (T-1). PA officers should be in constant communication with the local SJA in these types of instances and releasing personal information. 2.6.1.1.  If, in the judgment of the commander, releasing survivors’ names would reveal the  identity  of  deceased  individuals  prior  to  NOK  notification  (in  the  case  of  crew members known by their families to customarily fly together, for example), the survivors’ names may be withheld. Do this only when the potential for the NOK deducing their loss through news stories and rumors on social media/spouse network about  the survivors is so strong that the circumstances clearly warrant leaving other families in suspense.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 31 2.6.1.2.  Report information on survivors who are believed to be in immediate danger of dying  as  survived  but  in  critical  condition.  PA  must  ensure  releases  do  not  invade  the personal privacy of the victims or relatives (see AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program). 2.6.2.  Names  of  People  Aboard  Aircraft  Missing  or  Presumed  Lost.  When  an  Air  Force aircraft,  including  a  contract  or  charter  flight,  is  officially  declared  missing  or  crashes  in  a remote  area,  the  PA  office  at  the  departure  base  will  release  the  names  of  passengers  and crew to news media individually after the NOK are notified (T-1). This should not delay the announcement that the aircraft is missing. 2.6.3.  Names  of  Persons  Admitted  to  Military  Medical  Facilities.  PA  should  coordinate responses  to  query  or  news  releases  about  the  admittance  or  status  of  patients  with  the military  treatment  facility’s  privacy  officer  (each  location  is  required  to  have  an  individual acting in this capacity). (T-1). 2.6.4.  Names  of  Deceased.  The  responsible  installation  PA  office  releases  the  names  of people killed in Air Force accidents according to the following rules: 2.6.4.1.  Commanders  must  ensure  in  accordance  with  DoDI  1300.18,  Department  of Defense  (DoD)  Personnel  Casualty  Matters,  Policies,  and  Procedures,  no  casualty information on deceased military personnel may be released to the media or the general public until 24 hours after notifying NOK regarding the casualty status of the member (T-0). 2.6.4.2.  When  a  military  accident  in  a  civilian  community  causes  significant  property damage  or  civilian  loss  of  life,  the  commander  may  release  the  names  of  Air  Force members  killed  in  the  accident  before  their  NOK  have  been  notified.  This  is  only  done when, in the judgment of the commander, the needs of the public outweigh any potential distress  of  the  victim’s  NOK.  This  may  be  necessary  when  civilian  authorities  need information on the members to identify the accident victims’ remains. 2.6.4.3.  Releasable  information  includes  gender;  Air  Force  specialty  code  (AFSC); military grade and rank; civilian grade; military base pay and all allowances except basic allowance for housing (BAH); civilian gross salary; current and past assignments; date of rank  (DOR);  extended  active  duty  (EAD)  date;  pay  date;  source  of  commission; professional  military  education  (PME);  military  awards  and  decorations;  duty  status, attendance  at  technical,  scientific,  or  professional  meetings;  and  in  the  case  of  key personnel, biographies and photographs. 2.6.4.4.  Non-releasable  information  includes  home  of  record,  home  address;  home telephone  number,  date  of  birth;  marital  status; number  and  gender  of  family  members; civilian education degree and year of graduation; civilian awards; or race. 2.6.5.  Release of Information when more than one Service is involved. In joint exercises or operations,  the  joint  command  PA  is  responsible  for  all  PA  actions.  In  all  other  cases,  if circumstances  permit,  the  parent  service  of  the  involved  aircraft  or  vessel  makes  the  initial announcement of the accident. If this is not feasible because of location or time constraints, any other service directly involved may assist media as necessary, including release of facts. The responding service keeps the parent service PA informed. Once an official statement is  32 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 released by the parent service, other services involved may release a full description of their own participation, such as rescue or disaster relief activities. 2.6.5.1.  Release  specific  casualty  information  according  to  the  military  service’s regulations.  Names  and  numbers  of  casualties  are  released  by  the  service  to  which  the casualties  belong.  When  time  does  not  permit  and  facts  are  obvious  to  the  public,  any other service involved in the operation may announce, when queried, only the number of dead,  number  of  survivors,  and  number  of  injured.  If  possible,  release  all  services’ casualty names simultaneously. 2.6.6.  Names  of  Foreign  Nationals.  When  a  foreign  national  (other  than  a  locally  hired employee) is an accident casualty while under Air Force auspices, Air Force officials will not release the name without host nation coordination and  confirmation  that  NOK notifications have  taken  place  (T-1).  When  the  foreign  national  is  locally  employed  by  a  host  nation agency, the host nation’s agency rules take precedence. Overseas MAJCOMs must develop policy for releasing names of local national U.S. Air Force employees injured on duty. 2.6.7.  Key  U.S.  and  Foreign  Government  Persons.  Because  of  national  and  international interest and implications, carefully coordinate the release of casualty information concerning key  U.S.  Government  personnel  or  equivalent  rank  foreign  government  visitors.  When  the following  key  persons  are  killed,  injured,  or  listed  as  missing  while  on  an  Air  Force installation  or  traveling  in  an  Air  Force  vehicle  or  aircraft,  notify  OSD/PA  press  desk  for public announcement by the White House Press Secretary: 2.6.7.1.  The President of the United States 2.6.7.2.  The Vice President of the United States 2.6.7.3.  Speaker of the House of Representatives 2.6.7.4.  President Pro Tempore of the Senate 2.6.7.5.  Members of the Cabinet 2.6.7.6.  Foreign  visitors  of  political  or  royal  rank  equivalent  to  the  above  list  of  U.S. officials, and chiefs of foreign military services 2.6.7.7.  U.S. Senators 2.6.7.8.  U.S. Representatives 2.6.7.9.  Secretaries of the Military Departments 2.6.7.10.  The Joint Chiefs of Staff 2.6.7.11.  Commanders of combatant and specified commands 2.6.7.12.  Federal Government department heads 2.6.7.13.  The  installation  PA  office  withholds  casualty  information  on  the  following officials  until  OSD/PA  approves:  all  military  officers  and  civilian  employees  in  the grades  of  Lieutenant  General,  Senior  Executive  Service  Precedent  Priority  Code  DV4, and  above.  SAF/PA  may  authorize  releasing  casualty  information  before  securing OSD/PA approval if specific by-name queries are received. Only do this when OSD/PA approval is not available in time to meet immediate needs.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 33 2.6.7.14.  When  it  is  necessary  to  telephone  OSD/PA  directly  about  releasing  casualty information  on  key  personnel,  send  an  immediate  confirmation  email  to  OSD/PA, copying SAF/PA and any intermediate headquarters. Coordinate with the U.S. Embassy or Consulate to ensure the host government is notified of accidents occurring outside the United States. Section 2C—Controlling Photography 2.7.  On  U.  S.  Military  Installations  During  Crisis.  If  no  classified  material  is  exposed,  the commander  will  permit  news  media  photography  (T-2).  PA  may  not  release  official  Air  Force accident photographs that show classified information, bodies, or parts of bodies. See Chapter 7 of  AFI  51-503  (for  aviation  mishaps)  and  AFI  51-507  (for  ground  mishaps)  for  guidance  on release of official Air Force photographs prior to release of the investigation report. It does not mean the presence of bodies is in itself a reason to prohibit media photography. 2.7.1.  Classified  Material.  If  classified  information  or  materials  are  exposed  and  cannot  be covered or removed immediately, media or visitors are not allowed to photograph or record in  the  area.  As  soon  as  reasonably  possible,  the  appropriate  agency  will  cover  exposed classified objects and information in order to  allow escorted media to photograph or record the site. (T-1). The commander and PA will: 2.7.1.1.  Notify media or visitors of any restrictions with  regard to  what  can and cannot be filmed in a given area or activity. Bar or restrict media and visitors from sensitive sites or activities (T-1). 2.7.1.2.  Immediately  notify  security  forces  of  suspected  photography  of  classified material  by  media  or  visitors  (T-2).  Security  Forces  will  confiscate  the  equipment, complete  an  AF  Form  52  (Evidence  Tag)  and  relinquish  to  OSI  for  further  processing. (T-1). Do not detain the media or visitor. 2.7.1.2.1.  Security Forces will coordinate closely with command officials to confirm the existence of classified information  on the seized materials,  review the coverage, and return all portions that do not contain classified information. (T-1). 2.7.1.3.  Immediately notify the local Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) for its determination as to whether an AFOSI investigation is warranted if it is determined that: 2.7.1.3.1.  The  coverage  contains  classified  information  and  in  some  cases,  AFOSI will develop and review the content and will handle further necessary coordination on processing  classified  information.  (T-1).  AFOSI  will  review  and  electronically  edit classified information from the media coverage. (T-1). 2.7.1.3.2.  If  it  appears  there  was  intent  to  deliberately  obtain  coverage  of  classified information for purposes of profit, espionage or to have any other significant adverse impact  on  national  security,  the  Air  Force,  base,  or  command,  officials  should immediately  report  the  above  actions  through  command  channels  as  well  as  to OSD/PA through PA channels.  34 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 2.8.  Appropriate  and  Professional  Photography.  PA  is  responsible  for  being  aware  of  on- and  off-base  photography  in  relation  to  Air  Force  activities.  Special  attention  is  placed  on photography of prisoners, wounded or killed personnel. 2.9.  Control  of  Photography  at  an  Off-Base  Location  in  the  United  States  and  its Territories.  The  authority  of  PA  personnel,  incident  commanders  (IC),  accident  boards,  and security  forces  is  limited  in  dealing  with  media,  particularly  at  an  accident  site  outside  an installation, unless it is declared a national defense area (NDA). 2.9.1.  The senior Air Force representative at the scene finds out, as soon as possible, if there is any identifiable classified information present. 2.9.2.  If no classified information is exposed, or if it has been covered or removed, the senior Air  Force  representative  authorizes  media  photography.  PA  representatives  will  use identified  safe  routes  to  escort  media  to  a  safe  viewpoint  of  the  scene,  allow  photography, provide statements to media from cleared press releases, and coordinate all media queries, to include  interview  requests  (T-1).  If  photography  of  the  incident  scene  is  not  initially  an option,  consider  as  an  interim  solution  allowing  media  to  photograph  and  report  from  a checkpoint where emergency responders are entering. 2.9.3.  If  undetermined  whether  classified  information  is  exposed,  explain  that  fact  to  any media photographers at the scene and advise them no photography is authorized. Warn that taking pictures without permission may violate federal law and may identify them for future investigative purposes if they persist. 2.9.4.  If classified information is exposed and cannot be covered or removed, the senior Air Force representative must: 2.9.4.1.  Explain the situation and ask the media to cooperate (T-1). 2.9.4.2.  Explain federal law prohibits photography when official permission is expressly withheld (Title 18, United States Code, Sections 795 and 797) (T-0). 2.9.4.3.  Do not use force if media representatives refuse to cooperate unless declared an NDA  (T-1).  If  photographs  are  taken  after  a  warning  is  issued,  Air  Force  officials  ask civilian law enforcement authorities to stop further photography of the exposed classified information and to collect all materials with that coverage. 2.9.5.  If no civilian law enforcement authorities are on the scene and media representatives take unauthorized pictures, do not seize the materials or hold the photographer. Instead, the senior  Air  Force  official  at  the  scene  or  the  responsible  Air  Force  installation  commander must: 2.9.5.1.  Immediately  contact  the  managing  editor  or  news  director  of  the  newspaper, magazine, or television station employing the photographer (T-2). 2.9.5.2.  Explain the situation (T-2). 2.9.5.3.  Request  the  return  of  media  coverage  having  suspected  classified  information (T-1). 2.9.5.4.  Explain failure to return the material to military authorities violates federal law (Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793(e), 795 and 797) (T-0).  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 35 2.9.5.5.  Review media coverage turned over to the Air Force (T-1). 2.9.5.6.  Report  the  action  by  telephone  and  follow-up  message,  when  such  contact  is made, through PA channels to OSD/PA. (T-1). 2.10.  Liaison  With  Media.  Accidents  occurring  off  an  installation  are  under  state  and  local authorities’ control. Officials often rope off an area to protect the public from injury or to protect government  property  from  further  disturbance.  When  this  is  done,  the  OSC  must  coordinate media access to the accident site with civilian officials (T-2). 2.10.1.  If possible, brief the media on safety hazards in the area and the need for preserving the  site  for  investigation  and  consider  escorting  media  representatives.  Air  Force  personnel do not have authority to physically restrict movement of media representatives. 2.11.  Control  of  Photography  Off-Base  in  a  Foreign  Country.  Air  Force  officials  at  the scene  must  comply  with  status  of  forces  agreements,  the  laws  of  the  host  nation,  and  other instructions  of  the  combatant  commander  responsible  for  that  area  (T-0).  Overseas  MAJCOM commanders publish supplements to this instruction that state policy on relations with media at accident sites. Section 2D—Aircraft, Missile and Space Accidents--Non-nuclear 2.12.  Initial  News  Release.  AF  officials  will  write  a  news  release  and  publicly  disseminate within an hour after notification of an accident/incident, if possible, or as close to an hour after notification of the accident/incident  (T-1). The release should include as much of the following information  as  possible.  Note:  If  all  the  information  listed  below  is  not  available,  release  any available  information.  The  news  release  should  be  sent  to  SAF/PAO  at  usaf.pentagon.saf-pa.list.rss-saf-pao@mail.mil in addition to local and regional media. See AFI 51-503, Chapter 7,  for  release  requirements  for  information  beyond  the  following  subparagraphs  before  the approval and release of an accident investigation board (AIB) report. 2.12.1.  A general description of the type of accident (crash, mid-air collision, space launch mishap, etc.) 2.12.2.  The time and location. 2.12.3.  The  aircraft,  space  launch  vehicles,  or  missile’s  departure/launch  point  and destination or, in the case of satellites, intended orbit (unless that information is classified or foreign country sensitivity precludes release). 2.12.4.  The number of crewmembers and passengers aboard. 2.12.5.  The  type  of  aircraft,  space  launch  vehicle,  satellite  or  missile.  Withhold  this information  if  the  aircraft  or  missile  is  an  experimental  type  that  has  not  been  publicly announced or is on a classified mission and an exact description would reveal the nature of that  mission.  In  these  cases,  release  a  general  description  (for  example:  “...an  Air  Force fighter aircraft...”). 2.12.6.  Release unclassified facts about the mission the aircraft and crew were on when the accident occurred. Describe the purpose of the flight (for example: the specific training being conducted) and give as many facts about the mission as security permits.  36 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 2.12.7.  A  board  of  officers  will  investigate  the  accident.  (T-1).  See  paragraph  2.13.  for guidance on answering queries about the boards’ findings and the cause of the accident. 2.12.8.  If  an  accident  occurs  overseas,  the  board  of  officers  will  ensure  U.S.  embassy coordination is obtained prior to release (T-0). 2.13.  Accident  Investigations  .  Commanders  and  PA  representatives    cannot  speculate  about the  possible  causes  of  the  accident,  even  if  the  cause  seems  obvious.  If  pressed  by  a  reporter, explain, if it is an aerospace accident, that an Accident Investigation Board (AIB) report is going to be publicly released and include a statement of opinion as to the cause(s) and/or substantially contributing factor(s); if it is a ground accident, explain that the ground AIB (GAIB) is going to be publicly released. Explain the processes for the Safety Investigation Board (SIB) and the AIB. The  SIB  report  is  not  releasable.  The  AIB  report  is  releasable.  Release  of  AIB  reports  is governed  by  AFI  51-503,  Aerospace  Accident  Investigations,  Chapter  10.    Coordinate  with MAJCOM/PA for local release (community in which the weapon system and/or personnel were assigned) of the AIB report’s Executive Summary. Section 2E—Disturbances 2.14.  On-Base  Disturbances.  Disturbances,  such  as  protests  and  marches,  due  to  social, political,  or  economic  unrest,  can  occur  on  any  Air  Force  installation.  PA  must  ensure  their actions do not aggravate the existing situation. (T-1). PA also must ensure all PA actions are in close  coordination  with  security  forces  activities  (T-1).  In  overseas  areas,  PA  will  ensure activities  during  on-base  disturbances  conform  to  policies  and  directives  established  by  the combatant or specified commander and the country team (T-0). 2.14.1.  Release Authority. The local commander is the release authority. HHQ may issue PA guidance. See Chapter 1, Media Operations, for media guidance. 2.14.2.  Commanders will:. 2.14.2.1.  Adequately  staff  the  PA  office  to  provide  required  support  during  a disturbance, including authorized augmentation where needed, to assist PA personnel (T-3). 2.14.2.2.  Meet with internal and external media when needed (T-3). 2.14.2.3.  Approve a message for the Straight Talk Line's telephone answering machine, e-mail and web site, as applicable (T-3). 2.14.2.4.  Conduct  on-base  town  hall  meetings  or  other  open  forums  to  allay  fears  and address concerns of non-participants and to help stabilize the situation (T-3). 2.14.3.  PA will: 2.14.3.1.  Develop Situation Reports (SITREPs). (T-3). Send SITREPs to MAJCOM/PA as warranted. In turn, MAJCOM/PAs should forward to HHQ. PA will continue reporting during emergency conditions using priority precedence. (T-3).  SITREPs include: 2.14.3.1.1.  Base facilities involved and how affected. 2.14.3.1.2.  Number  of  military  personnel  involved,  both  as  participants  in  the disturbance and as members of the control force or in support of the control forces.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 37 2.14.3.1.3.  Number of PA augmentation personnel requested or in place. 2.14.3.1.4.  Assessment  of impact  to  on-base personnel,  including information about previous similar incidents. 2.14.3.1.5.  PA actions already taken and known or anticipated media interest. 2.14.3.2.  Deploy to Disturbance Area. (T-3). PA will deploy a person (or persons) with the on-scene  response force to  provide liaison  between the disturbance area and the PA office (T-3). 2.14.3.3.  Activate,  operate,  and  update  the  Straight  Talk  Line,  e-mail  and  web  page  as applicable (T-3). 2.14.3.4.  Conduct media operations (T-3). 2.14.3.4.1.  Activate and operate Media Operations Center, if appropriate. 2.14.3.4.2.  Respond to local media. Release information about the crisis as soon as it is available. 2.14.3.4.3.  Initial  News  Release.  The  initial  news  release  should  include  the  nature and background of the disturbance, numbers of personnel involved, damage or injury estimates, command actions, and a statement that the cause is being investigated. 2.14.3.4.4.  Escort Media. 2.14.3.4.4.1.  Before  taking  media  representatives  to  the  disturbance  area,  brief them on the current situation, base organizations involved, and any possible risks of personal harm. 2.14.3.4.4.2.  Issue a Media Badge. Coordinate with the security forces to ensure they recognize the badge. Note that media representatives are not allowed beyond the disturbance cordon perimeter, if established, or the edge of the disturbance. 2.14.3.5.  After-Action  Report.  Provide  an  after-action  report  to  MAJCOM/PA  within  7 days  after  the  end  of  the  disturbance  (T-3).  Report  should  contain  a  chronology  of  PA actions,  problems  encountered,  community  and  media  relations  activities,  and  lessons learned. 2.15.  Chemical  or  Biological  Material  .  If  an  accident  or  incident  involves  chemical  or biological  material,  release  information  according  to  AFI  10-2501,  Air  Force  Emergency Management  (EM)  Program  Planning  and  Operations.  The  release  also  complies  with  more specific  instructions  given  in  movement  and  operations  plans  or  orders  and  DOD  or  overseas combatant command policies that apply. 2.16.  Terrorism.  Because terrorists seek media recognition, media information management is in the best interest of the hostage (if any) and the situation. PA screens information disseminated to  the  media  to  ensure  operational  security  and  force  protection  and  provides  communication advice  and  counsel  to  those  in  charge.  In  response  to  a  possible  or  real  terrorist  threat,  the  PA representative  may  acknowledge,  if  appropriate,  that  increased  security  measures  have  been taken  (without  going  into  specific  detail).  PA  may  also  confirm  the  obvious.  Requests  for coverage  of  counter  terrorism  forces  are  not  approved.  In  overseas  areas,  coordinate announcements with the U.S. Embassy and combatant command PA. PA will ensure queries or  38 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 requests for information or photography beyond the above guidance are referred to OSD/PA. (T-0). 2.17.  Near Mid-Air Collision.  In case of a near mid-air collision that is of more than local PA significance, advise HHQ PA of the details and the PA situation. Include any actual or proposed responses to queries. MAJCOMs and FOAs should consider whether SAF/PA should be advised. Responses to news media queries at any level should be coordinated with the appropriate FAA office. Section 2F—Nuclear Weapons 2.18.  Policy for Information Releases  After Nuclear Accidents and Incidents.  DOD policy is  to  establish  efficient  and  effective  procedures  for  release  of  information  to  the  public  in  the event  of  nuclear  accidents  or  incidents.  However,  procedures  are  consistent  with  the  policy  of neither  confirming  nor  denying  the  presence  or  absence  of  nuclear  weapons  at  any  specific location. 2.19.  U.  S.  Initial  Public  Affairs  Responsibility.  In  the  United  States  and  its  territories  and possessions,  OSD/PA  retains  initial  PA  responsibility  for  nuclear  weapon  accidents  and significant  incidents  at  military  installations.  In  overseas  areas,  combatant  commanders,  in coordination with OSD/PA, will have this responsibility, with the exception of losses, thefts, or seizures (T-0). 2.20.  Neither  Confirm  Nor  Deny  (NCND).  PA  must  not  confirm  or  deny  the  presence  of nuclear weapons or radioactive nuclear weapon components at any specified location. (T-0). 2.20.1.  Exception for Public Safety. In the interest of public safety in the United States and its  territories  and  possessions,  confirmation  of  nuclear  weapons  or  radioactive  nuclear weapon  components  may  be  made  by  any  OSC.  The  deputy  director  of  operations  of  the National Military Command Center (NMCC) also may invoke this exception to policy before the OSC arrives, based on available information and coordination with the Air Force Chief of Staff or designee. Notify public authorities in a timely, candid manner to enable them to take public  safety  actions.  Notification  is  necessary  if  the  public  is  or  may  be  in  danger  of radiation  exposure or any  other danger  posed by the nuclear  weapon or  radioactive nuclear weapon  component.  Make  confirmation  promptly  when  protective  action  or  evacuation  of civilians may be required. These actions may include releasing statements to news media to expedite  public  safety  procedures.  PA  will  advise  SAF/PA  and  OSD/PA  as  soon  as practicable  when  confirmation  is  made  directly  by  the  OSC  or  the  deputy  director  of operations of the NMCC (T-0). 2.20.2.  Exception To Prevent  Public Alarm. To  reduce or prevent  widespread public alarm in  the  United  States  and  its  territories  and  possessions,  the  OSC  may  issue  an  official statement  of  reassurance  to  the  public  that  confirms  or  denies  the  presence  of  nuclear weapons  or  radioactive  nuclear  weapon  components.  Before  the  OSC  arrives,  the  deputy director  of  operations  of  the  NMCC  may  invoke  this  exception  to  policy  with  available information  and  in  coordination  with  the  Air  Force  Chief  of  Staff,  or  designee.  An  official confirmation  should  be  accompanied  by  appropriate  assurances,  such  as  that  the  chance  of injury  from  high  explosive  detonation  or  potential  exposure  to  radiation  is  highly  unlikely. The  confirmation  also  may  state  that  use  of  explosive  ordnance  disposal  teams  and  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 39 evacuation  of  military  personnel  is  only  a  protective  measure  to  limit  the  number  of personnel at the accident site. A denial should characterize the accident or incident as a non-nuclear  event.  PA  will  notify  SAF/PA  and  OSD/PA  in  advance  if  practical,  or  as  soon  as practicable thereafter if this exception to policy is initiated to enable OSD/PA and SAF/PA to continue initial PA responsibilities and ensure release of timely, accurate information at the national level (T-0). 2.20.3.  Overseas.  In  overseas  areas  other  than  the  United  States  and  its  territories  and possessions,  combatant  commanders,  with  concurrence  of  the  host  government  through  the Chief of the U.S. Mission, may officially confirm or deny the presence of nuclear weapons or radioactive nuclear weapon components at the scene of an accident or significant incident in the  interest  of  public  safety  or  to  reduce  public  alarm.  Advise  SAF/PA  and  OSD/PA,  in advance if practical, if exception to policy is necessary. Inform civil authorities through the Chief of the U.S. Mission of an accident or significant incident involving nuclear weapons or radioactive nuclear weapon components in countries where international agreements require this  information.  Should  a  nuclear  mishap  occur  in  a  country  that  requires  public announcement  either  for  public  safety  or  to  ease  public  alarm  where  PA  coordination procedures  are  not  established,  the  combatant  commander  or  designee  will  coordinate  the announcement with the host government through the Chief of the U.S. Mission (T-0). 2.21.  Release  of  Information.  Information  about  any  nuclear  accident  that  does  not  cause  a public hazard or undue public alarm  cannot be released without OSD/PA approval. In event of losses,  seizures,  or  thefts  of  nuclear  weapons,  materials,  or  components  by  terrorists  or  other dissident groups, or in the case of seizures of nuclear storage sites or any site or location having a nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon system, release of information must be approved in advance and  handled  by  OSD/PA.  However,  this  does  not  apply  in  overseas  areas  where  governmental agreements exist for the release of this information. Terrorist activities on or near an Air Force installation are considered a special case of civil disturbance rather than an accident. For general policies on release of information, see Chapter 1, Media Operations. 2.21.1.  Procedures  for  Release  after  Nuclear  Accidents  and  Incidents.  Within  the  United States and its territories and possessions, the responsible commander must: 2.21.1.1.  Require the on-scene PAO to contact SAF/PA by the most expeditious means. (T-1).  Phone  numbers  are  DSN  225-0640  or  commercial  (703)  695-0640.  During  non-duty hours, contact the Air Force Operations Center, DSN 227-6103 or commercial (703) 697-6103 and ask for the SAF/PA duty officer. 2.21.1.2.  If  action  has  not  been  taken  by  Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency (FEMA) or the Department of Energy (DOE) to establish a joint information center (JIC), establish one near the accident site. (T-0). The responsible commander will make sure all public information is coordinated at the JIC before release. (T-0). 2.21.1.3.  Direct the release of basic accident or incident information without reference to nuclear material (T-1). 2.21.1.4.  If  needed,  direct  the  preparation  of  a  proposed  follow-up  release  that  is  more specific  to  the  situation  that  involves  nuclear  weapons,  components,  or  radioactive materials and any conventional high explosives. If the mishap causes a public  hazard or undue public alarm, the responsible OSC issues the release on his or her own authority.  40 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 (T-0).  If  there  is  no  public  hazard  or  alarm,  OSD/PA  approval  is  required  for confirmation or denial of the presence of nuclear material. 2.21.1.5.  Notify  HHQ  and  obtain  OSD/PA  approval  of  the  proposed  follow-on  release. (T-0). Both telephonic and message notifications are necessary. 2.21.1.6.  Coordinate  all  further  releases  and  proposed  responses  to  queries  that  go beyond the scope of previously approved releases with appropriate members of the JIC or through PA channels to OSD/PA if the JIC has not been formed (T-0). 2.21.1.6.1.  Community  Emergency  Action  Team  (CEAT).  When  key  local  officials and  civilian  and  state  officials  are  informed  of  an  accident  or  significant  incident where  radiation  and  other  hazards  may  exist,  direct  a  CEAT  be  formed  by  the  JIC. The CEAT may include PA, medical, legal, security, communications, administrative, logistics, and other appropriate personnel. As these resources become available, they function  under  the  direction  of  the  OSC  and  are  physically  located  in  the  JIC  to facilitate coordination. 2.21.1.6.2.  Coordinate  CEAT  activities  through  the  Senior  Federal  Official  (SFO) and with other agency PA activities to ensure a unified approach to working with the community.  For  military  nuclear  reactor  or  radiological  accidents,  state  and  local officials  will  be  informed  by  FEMA  in  the  United  States  and  its  territories  and possessions. 2.21.1.7.  Acknowledge  the  presence  of  nuclear  weapons,  components  or  radioactive materials, as soon as possible, if the accident or incident causes a public hazard or undue public alarm (T-1). 2.21.1.8.  Avoid  talking  about  nuclear  weapons  or  materials,  beyond  the  scope  of  the above guidance, unless authorized by OSD/PA. (T-0). 2.21.1.9.  Ensure  the  OSC  or  PA  designee  establishes  communication  with  OSD/PA immediately if an accident or incident requires implementing public safety measures. (T-0).  Direct  communication  between  the  OSC’s  PA  representative  and  OSD/PA  ensures appropriate coordination of PA policy matters and provides timely, accurate information for public release at the national level until the Air Force Service Response Force (SRF) takes  responsibility  for  PA  at  the  scene.    Air  Force  Global  Strike  Command  (AFGSC) will provide response task forces for Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) accidents and all non-ICBM nuclear weapons accidents within CONUS. 2.21.2.  MAJCOM  Nuclear  Accident  Planning.  PAs  for  MAJCOMs  possessing,  storing,  or transporting nuclear weapons, or supporting nuclear-capable units should prepare sample PA annexes that can be tailored by the installation PA office. MAJCOMs and FOAs must guide subordinate units, describing what additional supplements or annexes are needed in support of accident or incident plans. (T-0). 2.21.2.1.  Briefing Requirement. DOD Directive 5230.16, Nuclear Accident and Incident Public Affairs (PA) Guidance, requires that certain military and civilian people at or near a  nuclear-capable  installation  be  briefed  to  help  them  understand  Air  Force  procedures for handling nuclear accidents or incidents.  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 41 2.21.2.1.1.  DODD  5230.16  requires  commanders  to  brief  military  and  civil  law enforcement,  disaster  response,  nuclear  weapons  security  forces,  intelligence  and operations officials at least once a year. Areas discussed should include security, base plans,  policies,  and  laws.  While  face-to-face  meetings  and  briefings  are  preferred, PAOs  have  the  option,  if  conditions  warrant,  to  provide  the  required  information through  by-name  letters,  videotapes,  or  handouts.  The  sensitive  nature  of  nuclear accidents  and  incidents  requires  PA,  disaster  preparedness,  and  security  forces officials to conduct active PA and education programs with their civilian community counterparts. See DODD 5230.16 for details regarding annual briefings and meetings. 2.22.  Information Collection, Records, and Forms. 2.22.1.  Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication. 2.22.2.  Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records, and at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. the  AFRIMS  RDS accordance  with located disposed of in 2.22.3.  Forms (Adopted and Prescribed). 2.22.3.1.  Adopted Forms. 2.22.3.1.1.  OPREP-3, Event and Incident Report. 2.22.3.1.2.  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. 2.22.3.1.3.  AF Form 39, Response to Query. 2.22.3.1.4.  DD Form 441, Department of Defense Security Agreement. 2.22.3.2.  Prescribed Forms.  No forms are prescribed by this publication. Kathleen A. Cook, Brigadier General, USAF Director of Public Affairs   42 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Title 18, Sections 793(e), 795 and 797, United States Code – Crimes and Criminal Procedures Title 50, Section 797, United States Code – War and National Defense Executive Order 12356, National Security Information, 2 Apr 1982 Joint Publication 3-61, Public Affairs, 25 Aug 2010 “DoD Policy Regarding Media Access to Dignified Transfers at Dover AFB”, 25 Mar 2009 DoD 4500.54E, DOD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP), 28 Dec 2009 DoD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, 9 Apr 1998 DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, 20 Feb 2006 DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation, 4 Dec 1985 DoD 5400.07-R_AFMAN 33-302, DOD Freedom of Information Act, 24 Jun 2002 DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 14 May 2007 DOD 5405.03, Development, Submission, and Approval of Proposed Public Affairs Guidance (PPAG), 18 Feb 2016 DoDI 5410.15, DOD Public Affairs Assistance to Non-Government, Non-Entertainment-Oriented Print and Electronic Media, 28 Mar 1989 Affairs Purposes, 25 Apr 1975 DoD 5500.07-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 23 Mar 2006 DoDD 1325.04, Confinement of Military Prisoners and Administration of Military Correctional Programs and Facilities, 23 Apr 2007 DoDD 5122.05, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (ASD(PA)), 5 Sep 2008 DoDD 5230.16, Nuclear Accident and Incident Public Affairs (PA) Guidance, 21 Nov 2003 DoDI 1300.18, Department of Defense (DoD) Personnel Casualty Matters, Policies, and Procedures, 14 Aug 2009 DoDI 5410.16, DOD Assistance to Non-Government, Entertainment-Oriented Motion Picture, Television, and Video Productions, 26 Jan 1988 AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, change 1, 27 Jan 2012 AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections System, change 1, 6 Jul 2007 AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, change 1, 19 Aug 2009 AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 Jun 2013 AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, 20 Oct 2009  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 43 AFI 35-109, Visual Information, 12 Mar 2010 AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 Aug 2006 AFI 36-809, Civilian Survivor Assistance, 1 Jun 2003 AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program, 20 Jun 2008 AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation, 1 Jul 2002 AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, 26 May 2010 AFI 51-507, Ground Accident Investigations, 28 May 2010 AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 Aug 2002 AFI 71-101V1, Criminal Investigations, 8 Apr 2011 AFI 71-101V2, Protective Service Matters, 17 May 2011 AFI 71-101V4, Counterintelligence, 8 Nov 2011 AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 Feb 2014 AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 25 Nov 2011 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 Jan 2010 Manual for Courts Martial, 16 Jan 2008    44 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 Abbreviations and Acronyms AE—Aeromedical Evacuation ACC—Air Combat Command AFCENT—United States Air Forces Central AFDW—Air Force District of Washington AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFPCC—Air Force Personnel Casualty Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFSC—Air Force specialty code AFSPC—Air Force Space Command AIB—Accident Investigation Board AMC—Air Mobility Command ANG—Air National Guard APACS—Aircraft and Personnel Automated Clearance System BAH—Basic Allowance for Housing CC—Commander CEAT—Community Emergency Action Team USCENTCOM—United States Central Command CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CONUS—Continental United States DEFCON—Defense Readiness Condition DOD—Department of Defense DODD—Department of Defense directive DODI—Department of Defense instruction DOE—Department of Energy DOR—Date of Rank  AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 45 DRU—Direct Reporting Unit DSN—Defense Switched Network DUSTWUN—Duty Status-Whereabouts Unknown EAD—Extended Active Duty; Entered Active Duty USEUCOM—United States European Command FAA—Federal Aviation Administration FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigations FCG—Foreign Clearance Guide FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency FOA—Field Operating Agency FOIA—Freedom of Information Act FPCON—Force Protection Condition GAIB—Ground Accident Investigation Board HHQ—Higher Headquarters IAW—In Accordance With IC—Incident Commander ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile IRF—Immediate Reaction Force J/CFACC—Joint or Combined Forces Air Component Commander JIC—Joint Information Center MAJCOM—Major Command MIA—Missing in Action MOC—Media Operations Center NCND—Neither Confirm Nor Deny NMCC—National Military Command Center NMR—News Media Representative NOK—Next of Kin OSD/PA—Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs OCONUS—Outside the Contiguous United States OPCON—Operational Control OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OPREP—Operational Report  46 AFI35-104  22 MAY 2017 PA—Public Affairs PACAF—United States Pacific Air Forces USPACOM—United States Pacific Command PAO—Public Affairs Office; Public Affairs Officer; Public Affairs Media Operations Division PME—Professional Military Education POC—Point Of Contact POW—Prisoner Of War RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RIF—Reduction in Force SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SAF/PA—Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs SECDEF—Secretary of Defense SFO—Senior Federal Official SG—Surgeon General SIB—Safety Investigation Board SITREP—Situation Report SJA—Staff Judge Advocate SRF—Service Response Force SSN—Social Security Number USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command USAF—United States Air Force VI—Visual Information  