BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1064 29 DECEMBER 2016 Civil Engineering ELECTRICAL SAFE PRACTICES     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A4CS  Supersedes:  AFI32-1064, 17 January 2015  Certified by: AF/A4CS  (Col Laurie K. Richter) Pages: 24 This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  policy  directive  (AFPD)  32-10,  Installations  and Facilities.   It  assigns  responsibilities to personnel  who maintain and operate electrical  systems, including airfield lighting, and facilities.  Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, O&M, provides additional safety requirements.  This publication applies to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and Air National Guard (ANG) units and personnel. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to certification approval.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirement in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance items.   Refer recommended changes and questions about  this publication to  the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance with  the Air Force Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. 2 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision updates AFI 32-1064 by (1) changing application and scope for  contract  work to apply  when  incorporated  into  the  contract  documents;  (2)  adding  an  OSHA  reference  for confined  space  requirements  to  include  new  rule  29  CFR  1926  subpart  AA;  and  (3)  removing reference to AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, and ETL 11-9, Electrical Manhole Entry and Work Procedures from the Glossary of References and Supporting Information. Finally, the AF Form  1213,  Civil  Engineer  Energized  Electrical  Work  Permit,  is  now  required  for  approving energized  work  meeting  the  intent  of  NFPA  70E  and  the  Air  Force  Risk  Management Framework. AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 3 Chapter 1 APPLICATION AND SCOPE 1.1.  Application  and  Scope.  Application  and  Scope.  This  instruction  applies  to  all  electrical work done either in house or by contract when incorporated as a part of the contract documents on  infrastructure  and  facilities  that  are  maintained  and  operated  by  the  Air  Force,  assigns supervisor responsibilities and provides necessary guidance to safely build, operate, and maintain electrical  distribution  systems  and  equipment.  It  complies  with  AFI  91-203,  The  Air  Force Consolidated  Occupational  Safety  Instruction,  and  incorporates  National  Consensus  Standards.  Other requirements for worker safety are in UFC 3-560-01. 4 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 Chapter 2 SUPERVISOR RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Personal  Safety.  Supervisors must provide a safe and healthful work environment.  (T-0).  Supervisors  must  ensure  facilities,  work  areas,  equipment,  and  work  procedures  comply  with safety,  fire,  and  health  policies.  (T-0).    Each  supervisor  must  be  thoroughly  familiar  with  safe working  practices,  particularly  those  in  UFC  3-560-01  and  applicable  standards  and  codes referenced  in  Attachment  1  of  this  AFI.  (T-0).    Supervisors  must  report  and  document  all injuries,  even  minor  ones,  as  directed  in  AFI  91-202,  The  US  Air  Force  Mishap  Prevention Program and AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports. (T-1). 2.2.  Planning and Worker Awareness.  Supervisors must plan the work properly and ensure it is  performed  safely.  (T-0).    Supervisors  must  review  job  requirements  with  the  workers  and ensure they understand why and how to do the work, the hazards they may encounter and how to control  them,  and  the  proper  procedures  for  working  safely.  (T-0).    When  the  mission  allows, coordinate  de-energizing  of  circuits  for  safest  possible  working  conditions.    Supervisors  are required  to  provide  written  procedures  when  working  on  energized  circuits  to  ensure  safe practices. (T-0). 2.3.  Training Assistance.  Supervisors will provide general and specific safety instructions and training to workers, ensure each employee has access to this instruction and UFC 3-560-01, and ensure they demonstrate satisfactory knowledge before performing any task. (T-0).  Supervisors must document all training on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record or an alternative as permitted in AFI 91-202. (T-2). 2.3.1.  Supervisors  will,  after  initial  job  safety  training,  train  employees  annually  on  lock out/tag out, safe clearance, confined spaces entry, manhole, pole top and bucket truck rescue, shop operating instructions and review any Air Force mishap reports. (T-0). 2.3.2.  Supervisors  must  instruct  employees  on  identifying  abnormal  or  hazardous  existing conditions  (e.g.,  switches  left  in  an  abnormal  condition  or  bypassed,  broken  equipment temporarily fixed, changes to the one-line distribution map or schematic diagram, lock out or safe clearance tags left on unfinished jobs). (T-1). 2.4.  Safety Meetings.  Supervisors will conduct weekly safety meetings. (T-2).  As a minimum, safety meetings should cover the following topics annually: 2.4.1.  Hazardous Energy Control (lockout/tagout). 2.4.2.  Selected safety rules (two or three). 2.4.3.  Methods and hazards of jobs in progress. 2.4.4.  Unsafe practices and common causes of mishaps. 2.4.5.  Recent accidents. 2.4.6.  Potential personal injuries. 2.4.7.  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). 2.4.8.  Electrical tools. AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 5 2.4.9.  Materials handling. 2.4.10.  Good housekeeping. 2.4.11.  Adequate illumination. 2.4.12.  Working on or near machinery. 2.4.13.  Ladders. 2.4.14.  Working in elevated positions. 2.4.15.  Lifting and hoisting equipment, including aerial lifts. 2.4.16.  Grounding systems. 2.4.17.  Working in underground facilities (confined spaces). 2.4.18.  Overhead lines. 2.4.19.  First aid. 2.4.20.  Rescue and resuscitation. 2.4.21.  Arc Flash Hazards. 2.4.22.  Hazards associated with working on or near energized lines or equipment. 2.4.23.  Abnormal or hazardous existing conditions. 2.4.24.  Equipment  ratings  (i.e.  amp  rating,  interrupt  rating,  short  circuit  current  rating (SCCR) and available interrupting current ratings (AIC)). 2.4.25.  Energized work and the Air Force Form 1213. 2.5.  Specific Job-Related Safety Training. 2.5.1.  Supervisors  must  instruct  employees  who  handle  hazardous  materials  to  include personal hygiene and protective measures in their safe handling of potential hazards.  (T-0).  Supervisors must ensure Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) or Safety  Data Sheets (SDS) are available for all hazardous chemicals according to AFI 90-821 (T-1). 2.5.2.  Supervisors must provide Hazard Communication training to employees who work on job  sites where harmful  plants  or  animals  are present  regarding potential  hazards, and train how to avoid injury, and relevant first aid. (T-0). 2.5.3.  Supervisors  must  instruct  employees  who  enter  confined  or  enclosed  spaces  on hazards  and  necessary  precautions.  (T-0).  Specific  instructions  and  procedures  to  enter  and work  in  hazardous  or  potentially  hazardous  confined  spaces  are  consistent  with  the requirements  in  AFI  91-203,  Chapter  23,  and  29  CFR  1910.146,  Code  of  Federal Regulations Occupational Safety and Health Standards, “Permit Required Confined Spaces.”  Employees engaged in construction activities having one or more confined spaces must also comply  with  the  requirements  in  29  CFR  1926,  Safety  and  Health  Regulations  for Construction,  subpart  AA.    Technical  orders  or  other  procedures  that  incorporate  the requirements established in the standard are valid and may be used. This training should also include egress even if the space is not confined. 6 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 2.5.4.  Supervisors must ensure that employees are able to describe the work assignment and methods immediately before doing the work. 2.5.5.  Arc  Flash  Safety  Awareness  Computer  Based  Training  is  required  annually  for 3E0X1,  3E0X2,  3E1X1,  3E4X1  Air  Force  Specialty  Codes  from  the  AFCEC  Virtual Learning  Center.  (T-3).  This  can  be  taken  as  a  group  and  annotated  in  training  records through your unit training manager. 2.6.  Assigning Tasks.  Assign employees to jobs they are capable of doing safely.  Permit only qualified personnel to operate equipment and machinery.  Supervisors must ensure a minimum of two  qualified  employees  work  together  when  high-voltage  circuits  or  energized  circuits  are present. (T-0). 2.7.  Job Site Inspection.  Frequently, but not less than daily, inspect active job sites, materials, and  equipment  and  ensure  unsafe  items  are  tagged,  rendered  inoperative,  or  removed  from  the work site.  Ensure safe working conditions and practices.  Take action to correct any observed or reported  violation  of  safety  rules  in  this  instruction.    Pay  particular  attention  to  safe  clearance procedures  and  practices  when  working  on  energized  lines  and  equipment.    Present  safety briefings to workers at the job site. 2.8.  Mishap Reports.  Investigate every mishap involving an injury, property damage, or “near misses.”  Determine the cause and implement corrective action to prevent recurrence.  Notify the wing or installation safety staff of all mishaps involving injuries or property damage.  Investigate and report certain mishaps through safety channels according to AFI 91204, Safety Investigation and Reports.  Either the supervisor or base safety personnel will perform the initial investigation. (T-1). 2.9.  Standards and Codes.  Supervisors must train employees to comply with safety standards and the following codes: National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) 70, National Electrical Code (NEC)®;  NFPA  70E,  Standard  for  Electrical  Safety  in  the  Workplace®;  National  Electrical Safety  Code  (NESC  or  American  National  Standards  Institute  (ANSI)®;  state,  local,  and  host nation codes (see Attachment 1). (T0). 2.10.  Protective    Equipment.  Supervisors  must  properly  equip  and  train  workers  to  properly use  and  maintain  tools  and  PPE.  (T-0).    Supervisors  must  ensure  PPE  is  properly  worn  in accordance  with  additional  guidance  provided  (see  Attachment  2).    Pay  particular  attention  to rubber  insulating  protective  equipment  (rubber  gloves,  sleeves,  line  hoses,  hoods,  and  covers) and  hotline  tools.    Supervisors  must  make  sure  equipment  receives  periodic  documented electrical  tests  in  accordance  with  applicable  ANSI  and  American  Society  for  Testing  and Materials (ASTM) specifications (see Attachment 1). (T-0). 2.11.  Scheduling Routine Maintenance.  When routine maintenance requires disrupting power, schedule  the  outage  for  the  least  inconvenience  to  all  users  possible  without  jeopardizing  the safety of workers or  equipment.   Arrange electrical  circuits and equipment  of the prime power source  to  allow  safe  and  efficient  performance  of  routine  maintenance  tasks  with  minimum mission impact as a result of the outage. 2.12.  First  Aid  Training.  Supervisors  must  ensure  all  electrical  personnel  (military  and civilian)  receive  training  in  cardiopulmonary  resuscitation  (CPR),  controlling  bleeding,  shock management,  emergency  care  of  a  person  having  open  wounds  or  burns,  and  using  automated external defibrillators. (T-0). AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 7 2.12.1.  Host  base  medical  personnel  usually  train  unit  CPR  instructors.    If  the  host  base cannot  provide  medical  personnel,  they  can  arrange  for  certification  of  unit  personnel through the American Red Cross or American Heart Association. 2.12.2.  Personnel’s  certification  shall  be  current  according  to  American  Red  Cross  or American  Heart  Association  guidelines.  (T-0).   Supervisors  must  maintain  written documentation of current certification. (T-1). 2.12.3.  Supervisors must ensure relevant emergency phone numbers are readily available to all personnel. (T-2). 2.13.  Rescue  Training.  Supervisors  must  train  individuals  designated  for  rescuing  workers from confined spaces according to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Air Force occupational safety and health requirements to include blood borne pathogen training; this includes initial and annual refresher training. (T-0). 2.14.  Noise  Hazards.  Ensure  all  potentially  hazardous  noise  sources  are  identified  to bioenvironmental engineering services for evaluation.  Ensure all personnel that may be exposed to  noise  hazards  are  made  aware  of  them  and  use  the  controls  required  by  AFI  48-127.  Supervisors  will  post  noise  hazard  warning  signs  at  noise  hazard  area  entry  points,  to  warn workers.  (T-0).    Refer  to  AFI  91-203,  Chapter  23  and  29  CFR  1910.146  for  additional information. 2.15.  System Maintenance.  Supervisors must ensure electrical systems are maintained so they continue  to  operate  in  a  safe  and  effective  manner  in  accordance  with  UFC  3-550-01,  Exterior Electrical  Power  Distribution  and  UFC  3-520-01,  Interior  Electric  System.  (T-0).    Supervisors must  not  authorize  or  permit  alterations  or  modifications  to  equipment  or  protective  device settings without adequate engineering  guidance and study.  (T-1).  Supervisors must remove all obstacles  and  vegetation  that  restrict  unimpeded  egress  from  the  work  area  or  ready  access  to equipment. (T-2). 2.16.  Technical Data.  Supervisors will ensure current maintenance and operations procedures, diagrams,  schematics,  device  settings,  fuse  sizes,  and  manuals  are  available  and  properly  used. (T-0).  Supervisors will develop them if manufacturers' data are not available; obtain engineering guidance if necessary. (T-2).  Accurate, current (typically five (5) years or less) electrical short circuit  and  coordination  studies  on  the  primary  distribution  system  that  includes  facility transformers  are  necessary  in  order  to  further  calculate  and  determine  arc  flash  potentials, equipment ratings, and settings on downstream equipment within the facility." 2.17.  Supervisory Control  and Data Acquisition (SCADA) Systems.  Comply with ETL 11-1,  Civil  Engineering  Industrial  Control  System  Information  Assurance  Compliance.    All operators of SCADA systems that remotely control electrical distribution systems must have full knowledge of the base distribution system and thorough understanding of switching procedures. (T-1).  Operators must keep each display screen (schematic or map) within the SCADA system up-to-date  and  all  switching  points  on  the  remote  terminal  unit  accurately  identified.  (T-1).  Supervisors  will  develop  local  written  and  posted  procedures  for  remote  operation  of  circuit breakers and switches to ensure safety of personnel and equipment. (T-0). 2.18.  Safe Clearance.  Make sure all workers are thoroughly familiar with and comply with the most stringent safe clearance procedures found in NFPA 70E; AFI 91-203, Chapter 21; or those 8 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 posted at the job location before starting work.  See paragraph 4 of this AFI.  Supervisors must not permit work unless workers follow these procedures. (T-0). 2.19.  Work  on  Energized  Equipment.  Work  on  energized  electrical  equipment  is  prohibited except in circumstances justified and approved by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE), or equivalent, in accordance with paragraph 5. (T-1).   2.20.  Routine  Maintenance  Outages.  Before  de-energizing  circuits  or  equipment  for  routine maintenance or repair, the BCE must: 2.20.1.  Provide  a  minimum  three-day  notice  to  all  users  who  may  be  affected  by  the electrical utility outage. (T-3).  Facility manager approval is not required, but as a courtesy, an effort should be made to coordinate the outage. 2.20.2.  Coordinate  substation,  switch  station,  or  major  feeder  outages  with  the  utility provider, giving as much advance notification as possible.  (T-3). 2.20.3.  Assist  users  with  authorized  backup  power,  either  through  equipment  authorization inventory  data  or  real  property  installed  equipment  generators;  prepare  to  run  a  backup generator during the outage if necessary.  (T-3). AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 9 Chapter 3 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) 3.1.  Purpose and Limitations.  PCB is a class of nonflammable liquid insulation formerly used as a transformer liquid  dielectric.  PCB is  a suspected carcinogen  and no longer manufactured.  Several  manufacturers  distributed  PCB  under  various  trade  names,  such  as  Askarel,  Inerteen, Pyranol, and Chlorextol. 3.2.  Personal  Contact  Precautions.  Workers  should  avoid  contact  with  PCBs.    If  PCB contacts the skin, remove it with waterless hand cleaner, wipe with towels, and dispose of towels with  other  contaminated  material.    Flush  eye  thoroughly  with  water  if  eye  contact  occurs  and seek further medical attention. 3.3.  Cleaning  Spills.  PCB  spills  shall  be  cleaned  up  immediately  in  accordance  with  40  CFR 761.125. (T-0).  Prevent PCB from reaching storm drains, sewers, drainage ditches, or any other place  where  water  is  flowing.    Handle  a  PCB  spill  and  report  it  according  to  base  and Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  requirements.    Report  a  spill  through  the  base environmental coordinator. 3.4.  Controlling  Equipment  Containing  PCB.  Mark,  handle,  store,  dispose  of,  and  account for equipment containing PCB according to the latest EPA standards and in accordance with 40 CFR  761  Subpart  B  and  D.    (T-0).    See  AFI  32-7042,  Waste  Management,  for  on  base  PCB waste  management  and  recordkeeping  requirements  and  contact  the  base  CE  environmental coordinator for additional information and the latest EPA rulings. 10 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 Chapter 4 SAFE CLEARANCE REQUIREMENT 4.1.  Safe  Clearance  Requirement.  Supervisors  must  require  safe  clearance  procedures  for personnel opening and closing switches while working on transmission or distribution lines and equipment. (T-0).  Safe clearance procedures are necessary to clear lines and equipment for work in  the de-energized condition.   Safe clearance includes locking out  switches, breakers, or other controlling devices when necessary.  Mishap prevention tags, completing and posting energized work  permits,  and  grounding  provide  additional  warning  and  safety  if  lockout  is  not  possible because of equipment design; however, if a circuit cannot be locked out, a qualified worker must remain at the controlling device while work is being conducted. (T-0).  Supervisors must ensure no individual works on lines or equipment until all safety requirements are satisfied. (T-0). 4.1.1.  Safe Clearance Responsibilities. 4.1.1.1.  The Safe Clearance Manager, who is designated by the BCE, will issue a written safe  clearance  as  required  and  documented  on  AF  Form  269,  Electrical  Facilities  Safe Clearance.  (T-1).  The Safe Clearance Manager will arrange for interruption of service, must  have  knowledge  of  the  base  distribution  system,  and  notify  the  utility  company supplying power to  the installation before performing any  operation that  may  affect  the utility company's system. (T-1). An on-site supervisor may also perform the duty of Safe Clearance Manager or Switching Supervisor (person receiving safe clearance), but never both.    The  Safe  Clearance  Manager  and  person  receiving  the  safe  clearance  (Switching Supervisor)  must  never  be  one  and  the  same  (person  receiving  safe  clearance,  see paragraph 4.2). (T-1). 4.1.1.2.  The  Safe  Clearance  Manager  will  develop  written  and  posted  local  procedures for proper switching, blocking, tagging, and lockout  when switching by remote control, such  as  the  SCADA  system.    (T-0).    Depending  on  the  type  of  SCADA  system,  each software  manufacturer  has  different  protocols  to  identify  and  issue  tag  orders  for equipment  or  switchgear  being  worked  on.    The  Safe  Clearance  Manager  will  ensure written procedures are available to an electrician and the SCADA operator in the event of a switching failure by SCADA requiring the technician to  manually  clear the switching failure. (T-0).  Each worker and system operator must fully understand local procedures; local  procedures must be accessible or  available in  the work area.  Physically verify  all SCADA-issued  commands  for  opening  and  physically  apply  lockout  before  beginning work.  (T-0).    When  working  on  equipment  with  local  control  capability,  the  technician must take control from the SCADA operator and notify the operator when the equipment is  returned  to  normal  operation.  (T-0).    The  operator  must  issue  blocking  orders  and attach messages stating the reason for the condition and estimated restoration time. (T-0). 4.2.  Switching  and  Blocking  Procedures.  The  Switching  Supervisor  (person  receiving  AF Form  269  from  the  Safe  Clearance  Manager)  ensures  workers  accomplish  switching,  blocking, and tagging operations in the sequence specified on AF Form 269.  Operations may begin only when authorized by the Safe  Clearance Manager.  When work is completed the system  will be restored to normal operation in reverse order.  For instance, if a detail of switching, blocking, and tagging  reads,  "Open  Switch  No.  501  and  Attach  Danger  Tag,"  the  opposite  operation  is AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 11 "Remove  Danger  Tag  and  Close  Switch  No.  501."    Annotate  the  form  with  the  date  and  time.  Do not operate switches bearing AF Form 979, Danger Tag, or AF Form 982, Danger Tag: Do Not  Start,  under  any  circumstances  without  specific  authorization  from  the  operations  flight chief.    Notify  the  SCADA  systems  operator  before  operating  remotely  operated  or  monitored circuit-opening  devices.    The  "local-remote"  switch  must  be  blocked  in  the  position  which disables remote operation.  The Switching Supervisor will notify the SCADA systems operator when  work  is  complete  and  remote  operation  is  safe.  (T-1).  These  switching  and  blocking procedures  are  only  used  only  when  following  an  approved  AF  Form  269  for  primary distribution. 4.3.  Tagging  Procedures.  “Tagging”  is  placing  an  appropriate  tag  directly  on  the  circuit opening device.  Apply tags and lock out the energy control device to ensure safety and prevent unauthorized personnel  from altering device positions. A qualified technician will place danger tags  in  a  conspicuous  place  upon  opening  a  switch,  disconnects,  cutouts,  primary  jumpers,  or breakers, before beginning work on a line or equipment. (T-0). 4.4.  Underground  Distribution  Systems.  A  qualified  technician  will  block  the  switch mechanically  and  lock  and  tag  the  handle  on  underground  distribution  systems  when  it  is  not practical to provide a visible line break. (T-1).  A qualified technician will always use AF Form 979;  AF  Form  980,  Caution  Tag;  and  AF  Form  982  under  a  safe  clearance  (AF  Form  269), except  when  working  on  secondary  lines  or  equipment.  (T-1).    A  qualified  technician  will  not use AF Form 269 when applying AF Forms 979, 980, and 982 on secondary lines or equipment. (T-1). 4.5.  Grounding  Lines  and  Equipment.  Before  touching  for  work,  always  check  all  de-energized transmission and distribution lines and equipment by testing for voltage. Confirm lines are  grounded.  Treat  all  lines  which  are  not  grounded  as  energized.    For  definitions  of transmission and distribution voltages, see Attachment 1. 12 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 Chapter 5 ENERGIZED CIRCUITS 5.1.  Energized  Circuits.  When energized work is deemed absolutely necessary, and approved by the BCE or equivalent, supervisors must ensure it is accomplished with extreme caution and only when the basic energized work procedures listed in the following paragraphs are followed and  reviewed  with  all  personnel  immediately  before  starting.  (T-1).    Furthermore,  if  any potential  environmental,  safety  and  health,  operational,  fiscal,  or  mission  risks  are  associated with  working  on  energized  circuits,  the  BCE  must  notify  and  consult  with  the  base/wing  Staff Judge  Advocate.  (T-1).    Such  risks  may  also  create  potential  legal  liabilities  for  the  Air  Force and Air Force personnel. 5.2.  Electrical Hand Holes.  Work on or near energized electrical lines in hand hole enclosures sized to allow personnel to reach into, but not enter, for the purpose of installing, operating, or maintaining equipment or wiring or both is prohibited because the available working space is too small  for  safe  work  practices.    Supervisors  must  ensure  all  hand  hole  electrical  circuits  are completely  de-energized  before  starting  any  troubleshooting,  maintenance,  or  repair  action within the hand hole. (T-1).  5.3.  Low Voltage Electrical Panels.  Conventional circuit de-energizing/re-energizing methods (i.e., turning  off/on  a  switch,  opening  and  closing  switches,  or  operating  circuit breakers/disconnects) for the purpose of controlling an entire circuit is not considered performing "energized work" however, supervisors must ensure the PPE requirements of UFC 3-560-01. (T-0).    On  a  case-by-case  basis,  the  BCE  can  grant  written  approval  to  waive  the  usage  of  the  8 Cal/cm2 coverall requirement if a qualified electrical engineer has verified that the panel meets the parameters of Table 4-2 to include all notes, and panel maintenance per NFPA 70E, Article 225, has been performed and documented. 5.4.  Electrical  Manholes  Containing  Low-Voltage  Circuits.  Electrical  manholes  containing low voltage are considered Permit Required.  Work on or near energized electrical equipment in manholes  containing  low-voltage  circuits  is  prohibited  because  of  high  arc  flash  currents  for secondary circuits downstream of distribution transformers.  Supervisors must ensure manholes that contain distribution voltage but  also  share space for low-voltage electrical  circuits are also completely  de-energized  before  starting  any  troubleshooting,  maintenance,  or  repair  actions. (T1). 5.5.  Electrical Work  Not  In  Manholes  or  Hand  holes.  Work on or near energized electrical equipment is prohibited except in rare circumstances and then only when approved by the BCE or  equivalent  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  outlined  in  the  following  paragraphs.  Authorization  is  not  required  for  tasks  such  as  voltage  measurement  on  circuits  operating  less than 600V as long as maintenance or repair is not performed, and safe practices and appropriate PPE are used.  Safe practices and appropriate PPE are determined by the qualified site supervisor who must follow applicable UFC, and NFPA 70E, Article 130 guidance. (T-0). 5.5.1.  The BCE must approve energized work in advance. (T-0).  Prepare an AF Form1213, Civil Engineer Energized Electrical Work Permit in accordance with UFC 3-560-01 and also include an emergency egress plan in the event of an emergency. The AF Form 1213 helps to ensure a qualified site supervisor has the information to ensure all work performed on or near AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 13 energized  lines  greater  than  600V  is  based  upon  a  risk  management  (RM)  analysis  in accordance  with  AFPAM  90-803,  Risk  Management  (RM)  Guidelines  and  Tools  and  has been coordinated through the operations flight chief. A qualified site supervisor must deliver the final signed AF Form 1213 to the foreman/acting foreman or NCOIC of the electric shop to retain for a period of one year following completion of work. (T-0). 5.5.2.  Per UFC 3-560-01, energized work performed must be under the direct supervision of a qualified work leader devoting full time and attention to the workers and the safety of their work.  (T-0).  A  qualified  site  supervisor  must  ensure  two-person  teams  are  used  to  perform the work. (T-0).  The Safety observer must be trained in CPR. (T-0). 5.5.3.  A qualified supervisor must be consulted and approve any plan to work on energized equipment and ensure proper use of PPE. (T-0). 5.5.4.  Place  special  emphasis  on  PPE  and  appropriate  supervision.    Proper  supervision, training, and planning are paramount to ensure safety. 5.5.5.  For work on or near energized distribution voltage greater than 600V while the job is in  progress,  an  on-site  supervisor  must  closely  supervise  the  workers,  checking  them constantly  to  make  sure  they  are  in  safe  working  positions,  handling  tools  safely,  and complying with the energized work permit. (T-0). 5.6.  Electrical  Work  in  Manholes  Containing  Distribution  Voltage.  Electrical  manholes containing  distribution  voltage  are  considered  Permit  Required.    Work  on  or  near  energized electrical  equipment  in  manholes  is  extremely  dangerous  and  prohibited  except  when  justified and  approved  in  accordance  with  the  following  paragraphs.    Before  entering  a  manhole containing  distribution-voltage energized circuits, first  visually confirm  the manhole’s installed configuration allows entry without disturbing any installed conductors or equipment.  If it is not possible  to  enter  the  manhole  without  disturbing  conductors,  or  if  it  is  not  possible  to  move around  inside  the  manhole  without  disturbing  conductors  (adequate  working  space),  then  all circuits  inside  the  manhole  are  de-energized  before  entry.    The  foreman/acting  foreman  or NCOIC of the electric shop must make the assessment regarding safe entry. (T1). 5.6.1.  Inspection-Only  Access  in  Manholes  Containing  Energized  Circuits  with  No Known Problems.  Inspection-type work can be authorized in accordance with the following paragraphs and is limited to allow a qualified employee to enter a manhole where energized cables  or  equipment  are  in  service  for  the  purpose  of  inspection,  housekeeping,  taking readings, or similar work, if such work can be performed safely.  Safely entering a manhole for this purpose requires wear of minimum Arc Flash PPE Category 2 arc flash PPE (NFPA 70E)  and  compliance  with  other  confined  space  requirements  in  AFI  91-203,  Chapter  23.  “Inspection-only access” must be approved by the foreman/acting foreman or NCOIC of the electric shop.  (T-1).  Up to one-half (0.5) inch of standing water is permitted for inspection activities so long as no  conductors are present  in  the standing water.  Qualified technicians must  ensure  measurements  are  taken  with  a  non-conductive  instrument  from  outside  the manhole/hand  hole.  (T-0).    The  energized  work  permit  for  “inspection-only  access”  can  be discarded after the activity is complete. 5.6.1.1.  Entering  a  manhole  safely  for  the  purpose  of  examining  insulated  cable, equipment,  or  accomplishing  other  inspections  not  requiring  touching  or  disturbing  the energized conductors or equipment is permitted, but requires wear of minimum Arc Flash 14 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 PPE  Category  2  arc  flash  PPE  (NFPA  70E)  and  compliance  with  other  confined  space requirements AFI 91-203, Chapter 23. 5.6.1.2.  A  minimum  of  three  qualified  persons  is  necessary  for  this  activity.  Qualification requirements are specified in UFC 3-560-01. 5.6.1.3.  Supervisors  will  prepare  an  energized  work  permit  in  advance  in  accordance with  UFC  3560-01,  and  also  include  an  emergency  egress  plan  in  the  event  of  an emergency. (T-0). 5.6.2.  Work  Inside  Manholes  Containing  Energized  Circuits.  Electrical  manholes containing  energized  circuits  are  considered  Permit  Required.   Work  other  than  inspection-only  can  be  authorized  in  manholes  that  have  a  minimum  of  four  (4)  feet  of  working clearance in accordance with the following paragraphs, but is limited to:  removing conduit plugs;  spare  conduit  inspection  using  fish  tape;  boroscope  or  other  devices;  splicing  de-energized  conductors;  pulling  new  conductors  in  spare  conduits;  removing  abandoned  (de-energized) circuits, including load break or dead  break  elbows  if nearby  energized circuits are  not  disturbed.    Re-racking  energized  conductors  is  not  permitted.    The  circuits  are  de-energized before the conductors can be disturbed.  Accomplishing this work when standing water is in the manhole is not permitted. 5.6.2.1.  The BCE must approve energized work in advance. (T-0).  Prepare an energized work  permit  in  accordance  with  UFC  3-560-01  and  also  include  an  emergency  egress plan  in  the  event  of  an  emergency.  The  operations  flight  chief  must  ensure  “Work performed inside a manhole containing energized circuits” is accomplished based upon a risk management  (RM)  analysis in  accordance  with  AFPAM 90-803,  Risk Management (RM)  Guidelines  and  Tools  and  coordinated  through  the  operations  flight  chief.  (T-1).  The RM analysis must be kept with the energized work permit and retained by the chief of the electrical shop retains for a period of one year following completion of work. (T-1). 5.6.2.2.  A  minimum  of  three  qualified  persons  is  necessary  for  this  activity.  Qualification requirements are specified in UFC 3-560-01. 5.6.2.3.  Supervisors  will  prepare  an  energized  work  permit  in  advance  in  accordance with  UFC  3560-01,  and  also  include  an  emergency  egress  plan  in  the  event  of  an emergency. (T-0). 5.6.3.  All Other Work Inside Manholes Containing Energized Circuits.  Accomplishing this work where there is standing water in the manhole is not permitted.  All other work in manholes containing energized circuits is considered Permit Required. 5.6.3.1.  The BCE must approve energized work in advance. (T-0).  Prepare an energized work  permit  in  accordance  with  UFC  3-560-01  and  also  include  an  emergency  egress plan in  the event  of an  emergency.  (T-0).   The operations flight  chief must  ensure “All other  work  performed  inside  a  manhole  containing  energized  circuits”  is  accomplished based upon a risk management (RM) analysis in accordance with AFPAM 90-803, Risk Management  (RM)  Guidelines  and  Tools  and  coordinated  through  the  operations  flight chief. (T-1).  The RM analysis must be kept with the energized work permit and retained by the chief of the electrical shop retains for a period of one year following completion of work. (T-1). AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 15 5.6.3.2.  Provide an information copy of signed energized work permit and RM analysis to  the  Air  Force  Civil  Engineer  Center,  Mechanical/Electrical  Engineering  Division [AFCEC/COSM]. 5.6.3.3.  Electrical  analysis  software packages that  perform arc flash calculations do not account for an electrical manhole configuration in which the electrical worker is inside an enclosed  area  rather than standing adjacent  to an enclosure.    Increase the arc  flash PPE requirements  by  a  minimum  of  one  (1)  arc  flash  PPE  category  above  the  arc  flash calculation result per UFC 3-560-01. 5.6.3.4.  A  minimum  of  three  qualified  persons  is  necessary  for  this  activity.  Qualification requirements are specified in UFC 3-560-01. 5.7.  Electrical  Manholes  Containing  Transmission-Voltage  Circuits.  Work  on  or  near energized  electrical  equipment is prohibited.    Electrical  work  in  manholes  containing  transmission  voltage  circuits  using  the procedures  in  the  next  sentence  is  considered  Permit  Required.    A  qualified  technician  must ensure  all  manhole  electrical  circuits  are  completely  de-energized  before  starting  any troubleshooting, maintenance, or repair action within the manhole. (T-1). transmission-voltage  circuits in  manholes  containing  TIMOTHY S. GREEN, Maj Gen, USAF Director of Civil Engineers DCS/Logistics, Engineering & Force Protection 16 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities AFPD 33-3, Information Management AFI 32-7042, Waste Management AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports AFI 90-821, HAZCOM Program AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records AFPAM 90-803, Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools ANSI/ASTM D120, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Gloves ANSI/ASTM D178, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Matting ANSI/ASTM D1048, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Blankets ANSI/ASTM D1049, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Covers ANSI/ASTM D1050, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Line Hose ANSI/ASTM D1051, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Sleeves ANSI/ASTM F478, Standard Specification for Inservice Care of Insulating Line Hose and Covers ANSI/ASTM F496, Standard Specification for Inservice Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves ANSI/ISEA Z89.1, American National Standard for Industrial Head Protection 29 CFR 1910, Code of Federal Regulations Occupational Safety and Health Standards 29 CFR 1926, Safety and Health Regulations for Construction, subpart AA 40 CFR 761, Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use Prohibitions ETL 11-1, Civil Engineering Industrial Control System Information Assurance Compliance ETL 13-4, Emergency and Standby Generator Maintenance and Testing Criteria NFPA 70, National Electric Code® NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace® UFC 3-550-01, Exterior Electrical Power Distribution UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety, O&M AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 17 Prescribed Forms AF Form 269, Electrical Facilities Safe Clearance AF Form 1213, Civil Engineer Energized Electrical Work Permit Adopted Forms AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record AF Form 979, Danger Tag AF Form 980, Caution Tag AF Form 982, Danger Tag:  Do Not Start AF Form 983, Danger Tag: Equipment Lockout Tag Abbreviations and Acronyms ABU—Airman Battle Uniform AFCEC/CO—Air Force Civil Engineer Center Operations Directorate AFCEC/COSM—Air Force Civil  Engineer Center, Operations Directorate, Engineer Division, Mechanical/Electrical Branch AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFUB—Air Force Uniform Board ANG—Air National Guard ANSI—American National Standards Institute BCE—base civil engineer ASTM—American Society for Testing and Materials ATPV—arc thermal performance value BCE—Base Civil Engineer CE—civil engineer cm2—square centimeter CPR—cardiopulmonary resuscitation EH—electrical hazard EPA—Environmental Protection Agency ETL—Engineering Technical Letter HQ AFSEC/SEGS—Headquarters Air Force Safety Center, Engineering and Standards Branch 18 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 ISEA—Industrial Safety Equipment Association J—joule kV—kilovolt LOTO—Lockout/Tagout MAJCOM—Major Command NEC—National Electric Code NESC—National Electric Safety Code NFPA—National Fire Protection Agency O&M—operation and maintenance OCP—Operational Camouflage Pattern OPR—office of primary responsibility RM—risk management OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration PCB—polychlorinated biphenyls PPE—personal protective equipment RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RM—risk management RMS—root mean square SCADA—Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SDS—Safety Data Sheets UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria V—volt Terms Approved—Sanctioned,  endorsed,  accredited,  certified,  or  accepted  as  satisfactory  by  a  duly constituted and nationally recognized authority or agency. Authorized Person—A person approved or assigned by a supervisor to perform a specific duty or duties or to be at a specific location or locations at the job site. Blocking—Placing  a  switch  in  the  open  or  closed  position  and  mechanically ensuring  the position of the switch cannot be accidentally changed. Cable—A conductor with insulation or a stranded conductor with or without insulation and other coverings  (single  conductor  cable  or  a  combination  of  conductors)  insulated  from  one  another (multiple conductor cable). NOTE: A cable sheath may consist of multiple layers of which one or more are conductive. AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 19 Cardiopulmonary  Resuscitation  (CPR)—An  emergency  medical  procedure  that  includes opening  and  maintaining  an  airway,  providing  ventilation  through  rescue  breathing,  and providing artificial circulation through the use of external cardiac compression. Certified or Certification—The accomplishment of curriculum as specified in this instruction. Circuit—For purposes of this instruction, a conductor or system of conductors through which an electric current is intended to flow. Circuit Breaker—A device to open and close a circuit and to open the circuit automatically at a predetermined  overload  of  current,  without  injury  to  itself,  when  properly  applied  within  its rating. Conductor—Material (typically a wire, cable, or bus bar) for carrying an electric current. Note: This term is used only in reference to current—carrying parts that are sometimes alive (energized). Confined  Space—A  space  large  enough  and  configured  so  a  worker  can  bodily  enter  and perform  assigned  work;  has  limited  or  restricted  means  for  entry  or  exit  (for  example:  tanks, vessels,  silos,  storage  bins,  hoppers,  vaults,  manholes  and  pits);  and  is  not  designed  for continuous human occupancy. Energized—Electrically connected to or having a source of voltage. Equipment—General term which includes fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures, apparatus, and like items used as part of, or in connection with, an electrical power transmission and distribution system,  or  communication  systems.    Equipment  also  includes  but  is  not  limited  to  the  4 following ancillary equipment sets: Equipment - Climbing.  Includes  body  belts,  safety  and  climber  straps,  climbers  and 1. ladders. Equipment - Electrical Inspecting and Testing.  Electrical and mechanical devices such 2. as voltmeters, ammeters, ohmmeters, phase meters, and similar devices. Mobile and Portable - Large Equipment.  Relatively large equipment items easily 3. transported  for  maintenance,  including  line  trucks,  aerial  lift  trucks,  motor-generator  sets,  pole hole diggers, and similar apparatus. Equipment - Protective.  Includes  rubber  gloves,  line  hose,  matting,  blankets,  insulator 4. hoods, and sleeves, in addition to barricades and warning devices. Limited  Approach  Boundary—An  approach  limit  at  a  distance  from  an  exposed  live  part within which a shock hazard exists. Live  (Energized)  (Parts)—Energized  conductive  components.  Electrically  connected  to    a source of potential difference or electrically charged to have a potential significantly difference from  the  earth  in  the  vicinity.  The  term  "live"  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of  the  term  "current carrying" where the intent is clear to avoid repetition of the longer term. Live  Line  (Hotline)  Work—Maintenance  of  energized  high  voltage  electrical  conductors  or equipment using approved hotline tools and rubber protective goods. 20 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 Mishap—An  unplanned  or  unsought  event  or  series  of  events  that  results  in  death,  injury,  or occupational illness or damage to or loss of equipment or property. Non-Permit  Confined  Space—A  space  that  does  not  contain  or,  with  respect  to  atmospheric hazards, have the potential  to  contain any hazards capable of causing death  or serious physical harm Permit-Required  Confined  Space—A  confined  space  that  has  one  or  more  of  the  following characteristics: contains or has a potential to contain a hazardous atmosphere; contains a material that has the potential for engulfing the entrant; has an internal configuration such that an entrant could  be  trapped  or  asphyxiated  by  inwardly  converging  walls  or  by  a  floor  that  slopes downward and tapers to a smaller cross-section; or contains any other recognized serious safety or health hazard. Qualified—A person who has the skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of  the  electrical  equipment  and  installations  and  has  received  safety  training  on  the  hazards involved. Supervisor—Refers  to  the  supervisor  of  "employees  or  workers"  as  used  in  this  instruction. Generally includes the supervisor responsible for exterior electrical systems, the zone supervisor or  foreman,  and  the  infrastructure  support  element  supervisor.  Titles  are  necessary  to  assign specific responsibilities to a specific individual. Switch—A  device  for  opening  and  closing  or  changing  the  connection  of  a  circuit.  In  this instruction,  the  term  is  generic  for  all  oil  circuit  breakers,  air  switches,  network  protectors, disconnects  (either  fusible  or  plain),  hot  clamps,  and  other  devices  which  open  an  electrical circuit. Tag—A system or method of identifying circuits, systems, or equipment being worked on. Tagging—Placing a safety tag directly on a circuit opening device or equipment for additional safety to ensure it is not used or its position altered. Tags—Temporary signs (usually attached to a piece of equipment or part of a structure) to warn of existing or immediate danger. Voltage—The  effective  root  mean  square  (RMS)  potential  difference  between  any  two conductors  or  between  a  conductor  and  ground.  Voltages  are  usually  listed  as  nominal  values. The nominal voltage of a system or circuit is the value assigned to a system or circuit of a given voltage  class  to  provide  a  convenient  nomenclature.  The  operating  voltage  of  the  system  may vary above or below this value. Low  Voltage. Lines  and  equipment  operating  at  and  below  600  V  (nominal  phase-to- 1. phase). 2. High Voltage.  Lines and equipment operating above 600 V (nominal phase-to-phase). Secondary Voltage. Lines and equipment operating at and below 600 V (nominal phase- 3. to-phase). Distribution  Voltage. Lines  and  equipment  operating  above  600  V  (nominal  phase-to- 4. phase) up to and including 36 kV (nominal phase-to-phase). AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 21 Transmission Voltage.  Lines and equipment operating above 36 kV (nominal phase-to- 5. phase). Working Near (Live Parts)—Any activity inside a Limited Approach Boundary. Working  On  (Live  Parts)—Coming  in  contact  with  live  parts  with  the  hands,  feet,  or  other body parts, with tools, probes, or with test equipment, regardless of the PPE a person is wearing.  22 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 Attachment 2 REQUIREMENTS FOR WEAR OF MILITARY UNIFORMS WITH ARC THERMAL PERFORMANCE VALUE (ATPV) RATED PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (PPE) A2.1.  3E0X1, 3E0X2, 3E1X1 and 3E4X1 personnel  must comply  with  the following PPE and uniform requirements while working on or near energized circuits: (T-0) A2.1.1.  Routine  Electrical  Work  not  Classified.    The  following  PPE  and  uniform  must  be worn when performing Hazard/Risk Category 0 tasks: A2.1.1.1.  Safety glasses (ANSI Z87.1) with side shields or safety goggles (ANSI Z87.1) must be worn over metal frame and non-safety glasses. A2.1.1.2.  100% cotton  or natural  fiber underwear (conventional  short sleeve t-shirt  and briefs/shorts) must be worn next to the body.  T-shirts must not have any organizational or other insignias. A2.1.1.3.  Personnel must wear one of the following uniforms: (T-0). A2.1.1.3.1.  NFPA-compliant 100% cotton ABU with sleeves rolled down. Note:    ATPV-protective  clothing  is  not  required  when  wearing  AFUB  NFPA-compliant  100% cotton Airman Battle Uniform (ABU) while performing Hazard/Risk Category 0 tasks. A2.1.1.3.2.  50%  nylon/50%  cotton  ABU  or  Operational  Camouflage  Pattern  (OCP) uniform  and  ATPV-rated  protective  shirt  (long-sleeve)  and  pants  (or  ATPV-rated protective coveralls) with minimum arc rating of 8 cal/cm2 (33.47 J/cm2) Note:    When  the  50%  nylon/50%  cotton  ABU  or  OCP  uniform  is  worn,  the  blouse  must  be removed before donning the ATPV protective clothing. A2.1.1.4.  Review NFPA 70E and UFC 3-560-01 for tasks requiring voltage-rated gloves with leather protectors. A2.1.1.5.  Electrical hazard-rated (EH) work shoes/boots. A2.1.2.  Hazard/Risk  Categories  1  and  2.    Personnel  must  wear  the  following  PPE  and uniform when performing Hazard/Risk Category 1 and Category 2 tasks: (T-0). A2.1.2.1.  Safety glasses (ANSI Z87.1) with side shields, or safety goggles (ANSI Z87.1) worn over metal frame and non-safety glasses. A2.1.2.2.  Hearing  protection  using  ear-canal  inserts  whenever  working  within  the  arc flash boundary. A2.1.2.3.  Balaclava/sock with minimum arc rating of 8 cal/cm2 (33.47 J/com2) A2.1.2.4.  Hard hat (ISEA Z89.1 Type 1 Class E approved).  Long hair must be secured under  the  hard  hat.    For  cold  weather  operations,  insulated  hard  hat  liner  must  be  arc rated. A2.1.2.5.  Face  shield  with  minimum  arc  rating  of  8  cal/cm2  (33.47  J/cm2)  and  wrap-around guarding to protect the face, forehead, ears, and neck. AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 23 A2.1.2.6.  One-hundred  percent  (100%)  cotton  or  natural  fiber  underwear  (conventional short sleeve t-shirt  and briefs/shorts) must be  worn next  to  the body.  T-shirts  must not have any organizational or other insignias. A2.1.2.7.  NFPA-compliant  100%  cotton  ABU,  100%  cotton  coverall,  OCP  uniform  or 50% nylon/50% cotton ABU. Note:  If the 50% nylon/50% cotton ABU or OCP uniform is worn, the blouse must be removed before donning the ATPV-protective clothing in paragraph A2.1.2.8. A2.1.2.8.  ATPV-rated protective shirt (long-sleeve) and pants (or ATPV-rated protective coveralls) with minimum arc rating of 8 cal/cm2 (33.47 J/cm2). A2.1.2.9.  Leather  work  gloves  or  voltage-rated  gloves  with  leather  protectors,  used  in accordance with NFPA 70E and UFC 3-560-01. Note:  Do not use voltage-rated gloves and their leather protectors as work gloves. A2.1.2.10.  EH-rated work shoes/boots. A2.2.  The 3E0X1 Air Force specialty is the only authorized civil engineer specialty to work on or  near  energized  Hazard/Risk  Category  3-4  circuits.  3E0X1  personnel  must  comply  with  the following PPE and uniform requirements while working on or near these circuits: (T-0)  A2.2.1.  Follow NFPA 70E and UFC 3-560-01. A2.2.2.  NFPA-compliant 100% cotton ABUs or 100% cotton coveralls. A2.3.  Base  Civil  Engineers  (BCE)  must  strictly  enforce  the  wear  of  ATPV-rated  PPE  for  all civil  engineer  personnel  working  on  or  near  energized  electrical  circuits.    BCEs  must  develop written  policy  outlining  procurement  and  funding  of  NFPAcompliant  100%  cotton  ABUs  or 100% cotton coveralls for the 3E0X1 Air Force specialty.  NFPA-compliant 100% cotton ABUs are  still  authorized  wear  for  the  3E0X2,  3E1X1  and  3E4X1  Air  Force  specialties,  but  not mandated. A2.4.  Civilian personnel will continue to follow requirements outlined in NFPA 70E and UFC 3-560-01. (T-0).   24 AFI32-1064  29 DECEMBER 2016 Table A2.1.  Personnel must comply with the below PPE and Uniform Item Requirements (T-0):  dooH  tiuShsalF&   tiuShsalF  yrogetaCksiR/drazaHRoutine Electrical Work not Classified 1 & 2 3 4 Uniform 100% Cotton ABU1 (Coverall) 50/50 Blend ABU2 or OCP Uniform2 100% Cotton ABU1 (Coverall) or 50/50 Blend ABU2 or OCP Uniform2 100% Cotton ABU1 (Coverall) 100% Cotton ABU1 (Coverall)  selggoG ro sessalG ytefaS noitcetorP gniraeH  taHdraH sevolGkroW  rehtaeL larutaN rO  nottoC%001  raeW/trihS rednU rebiF raewtooFdetar HE   sevolGdetaR egatloV epp 2mc/lac 8 kcoS/avalcalaB dleihS ecaF    X X   X X X X     3  3  X X  X  X  X  X X  X  X 3  X X  X  X  X  X X  X  X  X  X X X     3 3    reyalitluMEPP 2 mc/lac 04     dooH tiuS /hsalFw epp 2mc/lac 52   X  X  Notes: 1.  When wearing the 100% cotton ABU (coverall), sleeves must be rolled down. 2.  When wearing the 50/50 blend ABU or OCP uniform, the blouse must be removed. 3.  Voltage rated gloves with leather protectors must be worn in accordance with NFPA 70E and UFC 3-560-01.  