 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-10141 5 FEBRUARY 2015 Civil Engineering PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING FIRE SAFETY DEFICIENCY CORRECTION PROJECTS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the  e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A4CS  Supersedes:   AFI32-10141, 3 March 2011 Certified by: AF/A4CS (Col Valerie L. Hasberry) Pages: 23   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  policy  directive  (AFPD)  32-10,  Installations  and Facilities;  Department  of  Labor,  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (OSHA) standards; the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); applicable Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC); National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) regulations; and other national consensus standards cited  herein.    It  establishes  a  program  to  identify,  manage,  and  correct  fire  safety  deficiencies (FSD)  as  defined  within  this  instruction.    It  provides  objective  criteria  for  determining  proper classification of FSDs and the process for correcting, deferring, and reporting FSDs.  It supports processes implemented by  AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, and Department  of Defense Instruction (DODI) 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, for delivery of fire  prevention  services.    This  instruction  applies  to  US  Air  Force  (USAF)  active  and  reserve component  installations  and  activities  in  the  United  States.    It  also  applies  to  USAF  enduring locations outside the United States. It does not apply to contingency locations.  This instruction applies to all USAF, Air Force Reserve (USAFR), and Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS)  military  and  civilian  personnel.  This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level, but  all  direct  supplements  must  be  routed  to  the  office  of  primary  responsibility  (OPR)  of  this publication  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.  The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirement in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval authority,  or,  alternately,  to  the  publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.  Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR  using  AF  Form  847,   2  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN) 33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  The  use  of the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision clarifies the intent of the fire safety deficiency program to mirror other requirement prioritization processes.  This revision prevents small, high-priority fire safety deficiencies from exercising a disproportionate impact on the requirements prioritization process, and reduces the base-level  management  burden  when  installation  resources  have  been  allocated  to  correct  a deficiency.    Civil  engineering  program  management  terminology  is  updated  to  reflect  the evolving asset management processes.  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Overview.   ...............................................................................................................  Roles and Responsibilities.   ....................................................................................  Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD).   ...............................................................................  Processing and Managing FSDs.   ...........................................................................  Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ).   ....................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—FIRE SAFETY DEFICIENCY CODE DECISION MATRIX   Attachment 3—FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERING ANALYSIS/REVIEW MATRIX       2 3 5 7 10 12 18 20 1.  Overview. 1.1.  Purpose.  This  instruction  defines  roles  and  responsibilities  and  is  designed  to  help effectively identify, plan, program, and advocate for the resources required to fix existing fire safety deficiencies (FSD) and avoid them during new construction. 1.2.  Scope.  This instruction implements the fire protection engineering policies established for the Air Force in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities. (T-1) 1.3.  Background.  The  procedures  in  this  instruction  are  designed  to  effectively  identify, plan,  program,  and  advocate  for  the  resources  required  to  correct  existing  FSDs  and  avoid them in new construction. This policy guidance supersedes Fire Protection Policy Guidance, Determining  Fire  Safety  Deficiency  (FSD)  Codes,  dated  17  March  2006.  This  guidance addresses the findings and the recommendations made by the Air Force Inspector General’s FSD  Eagle  Look  Inspection  Report  published  in  August  2006.  These  new  objective AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   3  procedures  are  a  complete  departure  from  the  FSD  procedures  previously  included  in  AFI 91-301,  Air  Force  Occupational  and  Environmental  Safety,  Fire  Protection,  and  Health (AFOSH)  Program,  to  address  the  findings  and  incorporate  the  recommendations  made  by the FSD Eagle Look Inspection Report. This guidance supersedes the procedures in AFI 91-301, Instructions for Deriving RACs for Fire Safety Deficiencies. 2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 2.1.  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Environment,  Safety,  and Infrastructure (SAF/IEE).  SAF/IEE establishes and provides oversight of policies relating to real property, real property systems and components, and engineering services, and grants waivers to those policies in appropriate circumstances. SAF/IEE is the approval authority for facility projects exceeding a certain cost or of a certain type. 2.2.  Director  of  Civil  Engineers (HQ  USAF/A4C).  HQ  USAF/A4C  provides programming guidance, oversight, and policy as required. HQ USAF/A4C reviews, validates, and  approves  operation  and  maintenance  (O&M)  funded  projects  classified  as  repair, unspecified  minor  military  construction,  or  for  operational  requirements  exceeding  the Active  Air  Force  MAJCOM  commander's  delegated  approval  authority.  HQ  USAF/A4C, through the Installation Support Panel, makes recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of the  Air  Force  for  Financial  Management  and  Comptroller  (SAF/FM),  and  the  Air  Force Group, Board, and Council on requirements for, and appropriate allocation of, resources. 2.3.  Reserve  Component  (RC)  Headquarters  and  MAJCOMs.    RC  headquarters  and MAJCOMs provide oversight to ensure compliance with the law and Department of Defense and  Air  Force  policies.    MAJCOMs  are  responsible  for  establishing  quality  standards; providing  MAJCOM-unique  guidance  to  supplement  Air  Force  policies,  procedures,  and instructions;  validating  requirements  identified  by  their  installations;  developing  and advocating  for  sustainment,  restoration  and  modernization  (S/R&M)  projects;  promoting timely  obligation  of  funds;  project  approval  within  delegated  approval  authorities;  and execution  of  projects.    The  ANG  Civil  Engineer  and  AFRC  Civil  Engineer  perform  these MAJCOM  functions  for  their  installations.    The  ANG  Civil  Engineer  and  AFRC  Civil Engineer  will  process  packages  for  SAF/IEE  approval  for  O&M-funded  (repair  or unspecified  minor  military  construction)  projects  exceeding  approval  authority  of  their MAJCOMs.  For  ANG  or  AFRC  installations  the  responsibilities  described  within  this instruction must be prescribed by the ANG Civil Engineer and AFRC Civil Engineer if the organizational structure at the installation does include the following roles. (T-1) 2.4.  Installation  Commander.  The  installation  commander’s  responsibilities  include  the following: 2.4.1.  Provide  workplaces  for  all  Air  Force  employees  that  are  free  from  fire  safety deficiencies  to  the  extent  possible  and  require  unit  commanders,  tenant  commanders, functional  managers,  and  supervisors  to  enforce  AFOSH  program  requirements  within their  areas  of  responsibility.  If  fire  safety  deficiencies  exist,  eliminate  or  control  them through  engineering,  substitution,  isolation,  administrative  controls,  revised  procedures, special training, or personal protective clothing and equipment (PPE). (T-1) 2.4.2.  Ensure qualified personnel evaluate and assign FSDs. 2.4.3.  Review FSD-abatement projects and establish priorities.   4  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 2.5.  Base Leadership. 2.5.1.  Facility Board (FB).  Reference AFI 32-10142, Facilities Board. (T-1) 2.5.2.  Functional  Manager.  The  organizational  commander  responsible  for  the  care, custody,  and  protection  of  assigned  real  property  will  initiate  the  process  to  correct existing FSDs and assist in preventing the creation of new FSDs.  (T-1) Responsibilities include the following: 2.5.2.1.  Ensure  compliance  with  fire  prevention  requirements  in  their  areas  of responsibility. (T-1) 2.5.2.2.  Provide  workplaces  that  are  free  from  fire  safety  deficiencies  and  conduct self-inspections for fire safety hazards and deficiencies (T-1) 2.5.2.3.  Establish and implement hazard reporting and abatement programs. (T-1) 2.5.2.4.  Establish  procedures  for  employees  to  follow  in  situations  of  imminent danger. (T-1) 2.5.2.5.  Enforce compliance with OSHA guidelines. (T-1) 2.5.3.  Facility Manager (Building Manager).  The facility/building manager works for the functional manager and is ultimately responsible for, submitting the work request, or calling  in  the  work  order  to  correct  an  FSD.  The  installation  fire  prevention  office  is available  to  assist  the  facility  manager  in  completing  the  work  request  by  identifying necessary corrective actions and the applicable design standard. (T-2) 2.6.  Civil Engineering. 2.6.1.  Base Civil Engineer (BCE) / Installation Fire Marshal. 2.6.1.1.  The BCE approves FSD Code assignments that impact priority facilities mission continuity or generate a loss potential in excess of $5 million. (T-2) 2.6.1.2.  The  BCE  semi-annually  briefs  the  Environment,  Safety  and  Occupational Health  Council  (ESOHC)  on  any  FSDs  I  and  II  remaining  open  or  completed  since the  last  briefing  and  annually  briefs  the  ESOHC  on  the  total  number  of  FSD  IIIs corrected during the past year. (T-3) 2.6.2.  CE Engineering Flight (CEN).  The chief of the engineering flight is responsible for ensuring that projects meet the requirements in UFC 3-600-01. (T-0) The engineering flight  chief  also  ensures  that  the  fire  protection  engineering  analysis  using  operational risk  assessment  processes  is  performed  in  accordance  with  paragraph  4.6  of  this instruction. (T-3)  Programmers are responsible for developing the documentation for the project  (e.g.,  DD  Form  1391,  FY__  Military  Construction  Project  Data)  in  accordance with  AFI  32-1032,  Planning  and  Programming  Appropriated  Funded  Maintenance, Repair, and Construction Projects. (T-1) Programmers ensure the complete solution set to  an  FSD  is  addressed  as  well  as  ensure  the  FSD  is  correctly  annotated  in  the  Civil Engineering  Project  Management  database.    Engineers/designers  need  to  ensure  new FSDs are not created (T-2) 2.7.  Fire  Emergency  Services  Flight.  The  fire  emergency  services  flight  is  normally responsible for identifying FSDs. Once identified, the fire emergency services flight shall be AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   5  involved  in  the  work  order  review  boards,  facility  working  group  meetings,  and/or  design review  meetings.  The  fire  emergency  services  flight  will  also  attend  pre-construction meetings  and  final  facility  inspections  to  ensure  that  fire  safety  policies  and  practices  are being  followed  and  that  the  FSD  is  properly  corrected.  Responsibilities  include  the following: 2.7.1.  Conduct fire protection inspections and assessments. (T-1) 2.7.2.  Evaluate fire hazard reports and coordinate actions with installation ground safety personnel as required. (T-1) 2.7.3.  Assign  risk  assessment  codes  (RAC)  to  fire-related  hazards  IAW  AFI  91-202 and/or FSD rating to FSDs IAW this instruction and coordinate them with safety officials as required. (T-2) 2.7.4.  Maintain  copies  of  OSHA  standards,  AFOSH  related  instructions/guidance  and other fire prevention guidelines. (T-2) 2.7.5.  Maintain  a  file  of  approved  permanent  exemptions  or  alternative/equivalency exemptions related to fire protection standards and requirements.(T-1) 2.7.6.  Maintain a file of approved mitigation/corrective action plans developed under this guidance to fire-related standards. (T-2) 3.  Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD). 3.1.  Existing  Facilities.  Existing  facilities  on  which  no  work  is  planned  or  underway  are assumed  to  have  been  correctly  constructed  in  accordance  with  the  codes  and  standards  in effect  at  the  time  of  design/construction.  Those  standards  in  effect  at  the  time  the  original construction project reached the 35 percent design complete stage are normally considered to be the design basis for the fire protection features of the facility. (T-1) 3.1.1.  An  FSD  exists  when  it  can  be  clearly  demonstrated  that  some  feature  within  the facility specifically did not meet the minimum construction standards in effect at the time of design or construction. (T-1) 3.1.2.  An FSD exists when it can be shown the facility was modified or renovated and it can  be  clearly  demonstrated  that  the  modified  or  renovated  feature  specifically  did  not meet the minimum construction standards in effect at the time of design, modification, or construction. (T-1) 3.1.3.  An  FSD  exists  when  it  can  be  shown  the  facility  occupancy  (classification) changed  and  the  building  features  did  not  meet  the  minimum  construction  standards  in effect at the time of the occupancy change. (T-1) 3.1.4.  An FSD exists when there is a current code or standard that specifically requires a retroactive level of installed fire protection or life safety features which are not met in an existing  facility.  FSDs  are  not  created  simply  because  current  or  future  criteria  require additional or different fire protection features than those currently installed in an existing facility  unless  there  is  a  specific  retroactive  requirement.  (T-1)  Generally,  NFPA  101, Life Safety Code®, establishes the specific minimum fire protection feature requirements for  existing  buildings;  however,  there  are  a  few  other  standards  which  address  specific occupancies and these could also cause an FSD. To apply to all buildings immediately, a   6  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 new requirement must have specific guidance that the technical requirement is mandatory in all current existing buildings (much like NFPA 101 has specific chapters establishing the standards for existing occupancies). Failure to comply with Life Safety Code may, in fact, be a hazard and therefore qualify for a RAC.  Consult with the safety office for this determination. 3.1.5.  An  FSD  exists  when  the  current  installed  fire  protection  features  (e.g., construction elements, separation elements, fire detection/alarm systems, fire suppression systems)  are  not  adequate  for  the  current  conditions  (e.g.,  assets,  materials,  mission)  in the facility. (T-2) These conditions may result from changes in commodity configurations and/or  materials,  changes  in  function  operations  (such  as  open  storage  to  rack  storage), change  in  process  from  a  manual  operation  to  an  automatic  or  electronic  operation, change from routine administrative operations to 24/7 command and control, and change from a test platform to an operational mission platform. 3.1.6.  An  FSD  exists  when  it  can  be  shown  the  facility  operations  or  mission  changed and the building features did not meet the minimum construction standards in effect at the time of the change. FSDs are not created simply because current or future criteria require additional or different fire protection features than those currently installed in an existing facility;  an  FSD only exists if there is  a protection deficiency, unless there is  a specific change in risk exposure. 3.1.7.  An  FSD  identified  during  a  fire  inspection  that  is  not  corrected  during  the inspection  visit  will  require  the  fire  inspector  to  prepare  an  AF  Form  1487,  Fire Prevention Visit Report.  This  in  turn may  require the fire inspector to  assist  the facility manager  with  filling  out  and  turning  in  a  job  order  (minor  work)  or  work  request  to correct the deficiency. (T-2) 3.2.  New  Facilities.  New facilities shall include all the fire protection features required by applicable codes and standards. Any failure to meet any fire protection feature will create an FSD.  (T-1)  The  fire  chief  or  his/her  designated  representative  provides  consultation  and design recommendations regarding firefighting operational requirements. The fire chief is not responsible  for  fire  protection  or  life  safety  system  designs.  The  fire  chief  coordinates  on design  drawings that  firefighting  operational recommendations have been incorporated. This coordination does not indicate acceptance or approval of the fire protection engineering design. (T-2) the  fire  department to  signify  for 3.3.  Conflicting Criteria.  If conflicts exist among criteria, UFC 3-600-01 takes precedence. (T-0) (Note: “Use the most stringent requirement” does not apply).  In cases where conflicts among  criteria  are  not  resolved  by  the  technical  guidance  in  UFC  3-600-01,  request clarification  from  AFCEC/COS  through  the  MAJCOM.  (T-1)    For  overseas  installations, where UFC and host nation fire protection engineering criteria conflict, the UFC criteria will apply  unless  an  applicable  international  agreement  requires  use  of  host  nation  criteria. Conflicts in the technical features standards and approvals used to comply with the protection requirements will apply the host nation equipment standards and approvals.  Request specific clarification  from  AFCEC/COS  for  unique  correlation  of  US  and  Host  Nation  codes  and criteria. (T-1) AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   7  3.4.  Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) Codes. 3.4.1.  FSD  I.  FSD  I  includes  missing  fire  protection  systems  or  missing  NFPA  101 features  in  any  building  or  process.  Any  facility  FSD  which  results  from  a  failure  to comply with the following is considered an FSD I: (T-1) 3.4.1.1.  New Facilities.  New facilities must meet the requirements specified in UFC 3-600-01,  paragraph  1-3.2.1.  (T-0)  Such  facilities  shall  not  be  considered  as  a complete and usable facility until such time as the deficiency is corrected. (T-2) 3.4.1.2.  Modernized, Renovated, Repaired, Restored, Upgraded and Change-of-Occupancy Facilities.  These facilities must meet the requirements of UFC 3-600-01, paragraphs 1-3.2.2 thru 1-3.2.4. (T-0) 3.4.1.3.  Existing Facilities.  Existing facilities must meet the minimum requirements of NFPA 101 for existing occupancies (UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-3.1). (T-0) 3.4.1.4.  Impairments.  Impairments  of  fire  safety  features  required  for  existing occupancies in accordance with NFPA 101 which are not corrected within 72 hours. (T-1) 3.4.1.5.  Other  Deficiencies.    Deficiencies  in  mission-priority  facilities  which  impact mission  continuity  or  generate  a  loss  potential  in  excess  of  $5  million  and  have  been evaluated and approved by the installation fire marshal. (T-2) 3.4.2.  FSD  II.  FSD  II  includes  deficiencies  in  existing  fire  protection  systems  or features  in  any  building  or  process  not  covered  by  paragraph  3.4.1  of  this  instruction. Any  existing  fire  protection  system/feature  identified  in  UFC  3-600-02,  O&M: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, which is out of service or  impaired  so  as  to  prevent  automatic  or  manual  (manual  is  applicable  only  if  the system/feature is operated by manual activation) response to a fire event for more than 72 hours shall be considered an FSD II. (T-2) 3.4.3.  FSD  III.  All  other  FSDs  not  covered  by  paragraphs  3.4.1  and  3.4.2  of  this instuction are classified FSD IIIs. (T-2) 3.4.4.  FSD  Code  Decision  Matrix.  Attachment  2  is  a  decision  matrix  to  correctly classify FSDs for various situations. 4.  Processing  and  Managing  FSDs.  These  processes  are  not  an  alternative  to  the  risk management (RM) analysis; rather, ORM is an integral part of the risk quantification necessary to  processing  and  managing  FSDs.  ORM  documentation  should  be  part  of  the  supporting information  with  any  mitigation/corrective  action  plan  or  alternative/equivalency/exemption approval request. (T-2) 4.1.  FSD I.  FSD I indicates a deficiency with the greatest risk to life and mission continuity.  Facilities  with  an  identified  FSD  I  not  being  corrected  through  paragraph  4.4,  “In-House Work,” should not be occupied except in accordance with an approved corrective action plan which includes interim control measures. (T-2) 4.1.1.  Corrective  Action  Plan.  For  an  existing  facility,  a  mitigation/corrective  action plan shall be prepared by the facility user with the support of the fire emergency service flight, the engineering flight, the operations flight (as appropriate), and wing safety. (T-2)   8  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 The  plan  shall  specifically  identify  the  level  of  occupancy  and  operations  permitted pending the correction of the FSD I. (T-2) The wing commander shall approve the plan before forwarding it to the MAJCOM/A7 for informational purposes. (T-2) 4.1.2.  Alternatives/Equivalencies.  Requests  for  approval  of  alternative  or  equivalent methods  to  meet  the  intent  of  a  criteria  requirement  must  be  submitted  through  the MAJCOM  to  AFCEC/COS  (see  UFC  3-600-01)  by  the  appropriate  commander.  (T-1) Alternative  equivalency  requests  should  be  submitted  following  the  staff  study  process and  format  in  Air  Force  Handbook  (AFH)  33-337,  Tongue  and  Quill.  (T-2)    Emphasis should be placed on explaining how the selected technical solution/process achieves the intent of the criteria requirement. (T-2) 4.1.3.  Exemptions.  Requests  for  permanent  exemption  to  criteria  must  be  submitted through  the  MAJCOM  to  AFCEC/COS  (see  UFC  3-600-01)  by  the  appropriate commander. (T-1)  Exemptions should be submitted following the staff study process and format  in  AFH  33-337.  Emphasis  should  be  placed  on  explaining  how  the  increased mission continuity risk can be tolerated/assumed by the Air Force. 4.2.  FSD  II.  FSD  II  indicates  a  significant  risk  to  mission  continuity  and/or  existing property  capability.    Facilities  with  an  identified  FSD  II  not  being  corrected  through paragraph 4.4, “In-House Work,” should not be occupied unless interim control measures are in place. (T-2) 4.2.1.  Corrective  Action  Plan.  For  an  existing  facility,  a  mitigation/corrective  action plan shall be prepared by the facility user with the support of the fire emergency service flight, the engineering flight, the operations flight (as appropriate), and wing safety. (T-2) The  plan  shall  specifically  identify  the  level  of  occupancy  and  operations  permitted pending  the  correction of the  FSD  II.  (T-2) The  wing commander (or other  appropriate commander)  shall  approve  the  plan  before  forwarding  it  to  the  MAJCOM/A7  for information. (T-2) 4.2.2.  Repair  or  Correction  of  Fire  Protection  System  Impairments/Feature Performance. 4.2.2.1.  Impairments  affecting  the  performance  of  installed  fire  protection  features shall  be  corrected  immediately  after  identification  using  the  highest  priority  in  the appropriate repair work identification and management system. (T-1) 4.2.2.2.  When  the  impairment  will  exist  for  more  than  72  hours,  an  FSD  II  is established  and  the  installation  authorities  for  fire  system/feature  maintenance  and fire emergency services shall collaborate with the facility/area user to jointly develop written  control/mitigation  measures.  (T-2)  These  measures,  to  the  maximum  degree possible,  shall  ensure  personnel  safety  as  well  as  mission  continuity  (and,  as appropriate, high-value asset protection) until the impairment is corrected. The jointly developed  package  must  also  identify  the  remaining  mission  risk  exposure.  In  the absence  of  interim  control  measures,  the  facility  shall  be  evacuated  or  operations stopped. Implementation of interim control measures are not considered a permanent fix and shall not reduce the priority required to correct the impairment. (T-2) AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   9  4.2.2.3.  The  maintenance  activity  must  inform  the  installation  and/or  operational commanders of new impairments not corrected within 72 hours, the jointly developed interim  control  measures  being  recommended,  and  the  remaining  mission  risk exposure. (T-2) 4.2.2.4.  The  maintenance  activity  must  regularly  inform  the  installation  and/or operational commanders, not less than annually, on the status of system impairments, in-place compensatory measures, projected corrective actions, and corrective actions completed since the last report. (T-2) 4.2.3.  Alternatives/Equivalences.  Requests  for  approval  of  alternative  or  equivalent methods  to  meet  the  intent  of  a  criteria  requirement  must  be  submitted  through  the MAJCOM (T-1) Alternative/equivalency  requests  should  be  submitted  following  the  staff  study  process and  format  in  AFH  33-337.  (T-2)  Emphasis  should  be  placed  on  explaining  how  the selected technical solution/process achieves the intent of the criteria requirement. (T-2) to  HQ  AFCEC/COS the by appropriate commander. 4.2.4.  Exemptions.  Requests  for  permanent  exemption  to  criteria  must  be  submitted through  the  MAJCOM  to  HQ  AFCEC/COS  by  the  appropriate  commander.  (T-1) Exemptions should be submitted following the staff study process and format in AFH 33-337.  (T-2)  Emphasis  should  be  placed  on  explaining  how  the  increased  mission continuity risk can be tolerated/assumed by the Air Force. (T-2) 4.3.  FSD  III.  FSD  III  indicates  a  deficiency  with  the  least  risk  to  life,  mission  continuity and/or  existing  property  capability.  Facilities  with  an  identified  FSD  III  may  be  routinely occupied.  FSD  IIIs  are  typically  identified,  tracked,  and  corrected  during  scheduled  facility renovation or remodeling projects. (T-2) 4.4.  In-House  Work.  Deficiencies  identified  during  the  fire  prevention  inspection  process (AFI 322001) or the reoccurring maintenance and repair process (UFC 3-601-02) are initially considered for correction through the in-service work program. (T-1)  If CEO approves the work to be accomplished in-house, then the CE shops will accomplish the work and fill out the appropriate Civil Engineering Operations database automated records. 4.4.1.  Corrective  Action  Plans  for  In-Service  Work.  The  approved/funded  job order/work order represents the installation’s commitment of resources to the corrective action and will be considered the corrective action plan required under paragraph 4.1.1 or 4.2.1 of this instruction. (T-1)  No additional approval is required outside the in-service work plan process. (T-1) 4.4.2.  Rating  FSD  and  Other  Work  Requirements  Combined  in  a  Single  Work Package.  Deficiency corrective actions are often combined with other maintenance and repair  tasks  in  a  single  in-service  work  package.  (T-2)    Such  combined  work  packages will be coded as an FSD correction package only if more than 50 percent of the combined package cost is directly related to the FSD correction work. (T-2) 4.5.  New Project.  Regardless of funding source, when a new project, is required to correct an  identified  FSD,  the  information  will  be  transferred  to  the  Engineering  Flight  and  the documentation  that  was  entered  into  the  Civil  Engineering  Operations  database  must  be reentered into the Civil Engineering Project Management database. (T-2) Note:  For accurate tracking  and  FSD  management,  the  FSD  fields  must  also  be  reentered  into  the  Civil   10  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 Engineering Project Management database.  From this point forward, the project is managed like any other design project. 4.5.1.  Rating  FSD  and  Other  Work  Requirements  Combined in  a  Single Project.  Projects  that  include  a  scope  of  work  greater  than  required  for  correction  of identified FSDs will not classify the entire project as an FSD correction project unless at least 50 percent of the programmed funding is specifically intended to address correction of  the  FSDs.  (T-2)  For  example,  a  building  renovation  project  programmed  for  $100K that includes one FSD correction requirement for $2K would not include an overall FSD code rating in the project scoring process. 4.5.2.  Rating  Multiple  FSD  Requirements  in  a  Single  Project.  Projects  that  include correction of multiple FSDs representing at least 50 percent of the programmed funding will  reflect  the  least  severe  code  found  in  those  multiple  FSDs.(T-2)    For  example,  a project that combines one FSD I (10 percent of the programmed funding), four FSD IIs (30 percent), two FSD IIIs (15 percent), and some non-FSD work (45 percent) would be rated as an overall FSD III project in the project scoring process.  If any single FSD code accounts for at least 50% of the total programmed costs the project will reflect the code regardless  of  the  severity  of  other  requirements.(T-2)    For  example,  a  project  that combines one FSD I (10 percent of the programmed funding), four FSD IIs (60 percent), two  FSD  IIIs  (15  percent),  and  some  non-FSD  work  (15  percent)  would  be  rated  as  an overall FSD II project in the project scoring process. 4.6.  Fire  Protection  Engineering  Analysis.  UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4, requires every design  to  receive  a  fire  protection  design  analysis;  paragraph  1-5  requires  this  analysis  be conducted by a qualified fire protection engineer for major projects. (T-0) In some cases the results of the analysis is ―no analysis is required. Attachment 3 provides a matrix describing when an analysis is required and what type of analysis is required. 4.6.1.  Phased projects will be considered cumulatively when determining whether or not the project requires an analysis in accordance with UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 or 1-5. (T-1) 4.6.2.  Phased projects will be considered cumulatively when determining the percentage of  the  facility  involved  and  the  cost  of  the  work  versus  the  replacement  cost  of  the facility. (T-1) 4.6.3.  The  initial  analysis  of  phased  projects  will  evaluate  all  phases  together  and  a comprehensive documentation package will be developed and follow all phases through the design, construction, maintenance, or repair process. (T-1) 5.  Authority  Having  Jurisdiction  (AHJ).  The  office  responsible  to  approve  exemptions  and plans  and  interpret  technical  criteria  issues  varies  depending  on  the  issue  and  its  technical complexity. (T-1) 5.1.  Military  Child  Care  Facilities.  United  States  Code  (USC)  Title  10,  Section  1794, Child  Abuse  Prevention  and  Safety  at  Facilities,  requires  immediate  correction  of  life threatening  fire  safety  deficiencies  at  each  child  development  and  youth  program  facility.  Correct life threatening fire safety deficiencies at each child development and youth program facility  immediately.    Correct  non-life  threatening  fire  safety  violations  at  a  child development or youth program facility within 90-days or close the facility until the violation AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   11  is corrected.  An exemption to correct a non-life threatening deficiency may be available to authorize  the  facility  to  remain  open  in  a  case  in  which  the  violation  cannot  reasonably  be remedied  within  that  90-day  period  or  in  which  major  facility  reconstruction  is  required. Note: Exemptions as used in Title 10 include both permanent and expiring. (T-0)  JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Installations, Logistics & Mission Support   12  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 10 USC Sec. 1794, Child Abuse Prevention and Safety at Facilities, 15 October 2014 AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004 AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and Construction Projects, 17 October 2014 AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program (FES), 27 February 2014 AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 Aug 2011 AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996 (Rescinded) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010 AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 Jun 2012 ETL 00-07, Fire Protection Engineering Criteria – Correlation of US and Host Nation Codes and Criteria, 10 May 2000 UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, Change 3, 1 March 2013 UFC 3-601-02, O&M, Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, 8 Sept 2010 DODI 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, 21 December 2006 OPM General Schedule Qualification Standards, Fire Protection Engineering Series, 0804 AWWA Manual 14, Recommended Practice for Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control, 2004 AWWA Manual 31, Distribution System Requirements for Fire Protection, Fourth Edition, 2008 NFPA 101: Life Safety Code®, 2012 Adopted Forms AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request  AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report  DD Form 1391, Military Construction Project Data  Abbreviations and Acronyms 24/7—24 hours a day, seven days a week A4—Deputy Chief of Staff, Installations, Logistics & Mission Support ACES—PM—Automated Civil Engineer System – Program Management AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   13  A-E—Architect and Engineer AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center AFCEC/COS—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Engineer Division ACGIH—American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists AFDPO—Air Force Departmental Publishing Office AFH—Air Force Handbook AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction ANG—Air National Guard ANSI—American National Standards Institute AO—Action Officer AWWA—American Water Works Association BCE—Base Civil Engineer C3—Command, Communication, and Control CE—Civil Engineering CEO—Civil Engineering, Operations Flight CEN—Civil Engineering, Engineering Flight CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CGA—Compressed Gas Association CO—AFCEC Operations Directorate DOD—Department of Defense DODI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit ESOHC—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council eSSS—Electronic Staff Summary Sheet ETL—Engineering Technical Letter   14  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 FB—Facility Board FM—GLOBAL—Factory Mutual - Global FOA—Field Operating Agency FPE—Fire Protection Engineer FSD—Fire Safety Deficiencies HQ USAF/A4C—The Air Force Civil Engineer IAW—In Accordance With IBC—International Building Code IWIMS—Integrated Work Information Management System MAJCOM/A1—Major Command Directorate of Manpower and Personnel MAJCOM/A7—Major Command Directorate of Installations and Mission Support MAJCOM—Major Command MCP—Military Construction Program MIC—Microbial Induced Corrosion N/A—Not Applicable NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization NFPA—National Fire Protection Association NGB—National Guard Bureau NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health O&M—Operations and Maintenance OPM—Office of Personnel Management OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RM—Risk Management OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration PPE—Personal Protective Equipment RAC—Risk Assessment Code RC—Reserve Component RDS—Records Disposition Schedule S/R&M—Sustainment/Restoration and Modernization SABER—Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineer Requirements SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller SAF/IEE—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations) AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   15  SAF/IE—Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics SOW—Statement of Work UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria UFGS—Unified Facilities Guide Specification USC—United States Code Terms Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ)—An organization or office responsible for enforcing the requirements of a  code  or standard, or for approving equipment,  materials, an installation, or a procedure. Exemption—An  approved  permanent  change  to  a  procedure,  criterion,  or  rule  prescribed  in standards which provide an equivalent degree of protection to personnel. Facility Manager (Building Manager)—The unit commander designates, in writing, an officer, senior  noncommissioned  officer,  or  civilian  of  equal  rank  as  primary  and  alternate  building manager  for  each  facility  assigned  to  the  organization.    The  building  manager  is  the representative  and  official  contact  whenever  the  building  needs  base  civil  engineering  (BCE) work. Fire Hazards—A condition which can cause a fire to occur, or, if left unchecked, cause a fire to grow. Fire Prevention—The office in the fire emergency services flight that deals with preventing the outbreak  of  fire  by  eliminating  fire  hazards  through  such  activities  as  inspection,  code enforcement, education, and investigation programs. Fire  Protection—Methods used to control or extinguish a fire, which includes actions taken to limit the adverse environmental, social, political, economic, and life-threatening effects of fire. Fire  Safety  Deficiency    (FSD)—A  condition  which  reduces  fire  safety  below  an  acceptable level,  including  noncompliance  with  standards,  but  by  itself  cannot  cause  a  fire  to  occur.  See Occupational Deficiency. Functional  Manager—The senior operating official at  all levels  exercising managerial  control of  an  activity  or  operation.  This  individual  usually  can  acquire  and  commit  resources  for  the abatement of occupational safety and health hazards. Functional managers are designated by the MAJCOM or installation commanders. Hazard Abatement  Program—A systematic, priority program to manage, assess, and monitor abatement actions. Host Nation—A nation which receives the forces and/or supplies of allied nations and/or NATO organizations to be located on, to operate in, or to transit through its territory." Imminent Danger—Conditions or practices in a workplace which could reasonably be expected to  cause  death  or  severe  physical  harm  immediately  or  before  such  dangers  can  be  eliminated through normal abatement procedures.   16  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 Impairment—Conditions  which  cause  a  fire  safety  feature  to  not  perform  as  designed  or intended by code or standard. Impairments include a much broader number of features than just detection or suppression systems. Interim  Control  Measures—Temporary  actions  taken  to  reduce  the  degree  of  risk  associated with  a  hazard  or  deficiency  pending  completion  of  an  abatement  project.    Interim  control measures may not provide complete compliance with the required code or standard. Mitigation  Measures—Actions  taken  by  the  installation  to  reduce  risk,  enhance  life  safety, and/or  ensure  mission  continuity  and  continue  critical  operations  when  fire  and  life  safety features are degraded or don’t meet minimum standards. These measures are locally developed and  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  fire  watches,  increased  fire  prevention  and/or  safety inspections,  user/operator    special  procedures  or  operating  conditions,  limiting/prohibiting specific  or  unique  operations,  one-time  approval  for  certain  operations,  additional  manual  fire suppression devices, additional user supervision of specific operations, and fire department first-response  or  major  crash  apparatus  standby  for  specific  unique  operations.  The  key  mitigation measures should address how the facility user is going to exercise increased fire safety vigilance during  the  period  the  mitigation  measures  are  to  be  used.  Mitigation  measures  may  be  part  of interim  mitigation  controls  used  while  a  fire  safety  feature  is  impaired  or  part  of  a  long-term mitigation/corrective action plan. Mitigation/Corrective Action Plan—Normally, an electronic staff package prepared and routed in  accordance  with  Part  VI  of  AFH  33-337,  or  an  approved/funded  in-service  job  order/work order prepared and routed in accordance with AFI 32-1032.  The package should include, but is not  limited  to,  a  statement  about  the  deficiency,  an  analysis  of  the  problem,  the  recommended mitigation and interim control measures, and a plan that ultimately corrects the deficiency. The risk  management  process  is  one  process  which  may  be  used  to  develop  and  test  the mitigation/corrective  actions;  however,  the  RM  process  may  not  be  used  to  waive  or  avoid correcting the mitigation/corrective action plan is the Staff Study Report outlined in Part VI of AFH 33-337. the  deficiency.  Another  process  which  can  be  used to  develop National  Consensus  Standards—Standards  published  by  recognized  standards  organizations such as the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA),  American  Conference  of  Governmental  Industrial  Hygienists  (ACGIH),  Compressed Gas  Association  (CGA),  and  National  Institute  for  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  (NIOSH). National  consensus  standards  adopted  by  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration (OSHA) are part of OSHA standards. Occupational  Deficiency— Conditions, procedures and practices not compliant with OSHA or AFOSH requirements, but do not, in themselves, create a potential for producing an occupational injury or illness mishap. Deficiencies may, however, create a potential for secondary injuries or illnesses  or  may  contribute  to  the  severity  of  an  injury  or  illness  that  has  already  occurred. Examples include, but are not limited to, Fire Safety Deficiencies, program management items or the absence of an eyewash station. A clear distinction between hazards and deficiencies may not always  be  possible;  therefore,  the  judgment  and  experience  of  qualified  safety,  fire  protection and health personnel must be relied upon. Occupational  Hazard—Conditions, procedures, and practices directly related to the workplace that  can  create  a  potential  for  producing  occupational  injuries,  property  or  equipment  damage, AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   17  mission  degradation,  damage  to  the  environment,  or  illnesses.  These  hazards  are  normally assigned Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 1, RAC 2, or RAC 3. Overseas—A  geographic  area  outside  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States  (e.g.,  a  foreign country) Risk  Assessment  Code  (RAC)—An  expression  of  the  degree  of  risk  associated  with  an occupational hazard that combines hazard severity and mishap probability into a single numeric identifier. RAC 1 hazards are classified as imminent danger. United  States—The  several  States,  District  of  Columbia,  Commonwealths  of  Puerto  Rico  and Northern  Mariana  Islands,  American  Samoa,  Guam,  Midway  and  Wake  Islands,  United  States Virgin  Islands,  any  other  territory  or  possession  of  the  United  States,  and  associated  navigable waters,  contiguous  zones,  and  ocean  waters  of  which  the  natural  resources  are  under  the exclusive management authority of the United States.    18  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 Attachment 2 FIRE SAFETY DEFICIENCY CODE DECISION MATRIX Table A2.1.  Fire Safety Deficiency Code Decision Matrix. Rule If the deficiency is a result of then the FSD code is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 failure to meet the minimum NFPA 101 requirements for an existing building occupancy  failure to meet a fire or life safety requirement of a UFC or other document for an existing building and not covered under Rule 1 any deficiency in fire safety features resulting from new construction which does not meet the minimum construction requirements of UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-3.2.1. any deficiency in fire safety features which results from a modernization, renovation, repair, restoration, upgrade, or change of occupancy project which does not meet the minimum construction requirements of UFC 3-600-01, paragraphs 1-3.2.2 through 1-3.2.4. any out-of-service or impaired means of egress feature required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy not corrected within 24 hours any out-of-service or impaired means of egress feature and not covered under Rule 5 an out-of-service or impaired fire alarm and notification system required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy a facility fire alarm system which does not report fire alarm signals to the fire alarm receiving center or other constantly attended location operated by trained personnel and protecting any facility used for sleeping or command, communications and control (C3) facility (excludes battery-operated smoke detectors and similar alarms that are not part of the facility central fire alarm system) 9 an out-of-service fire alarm and notification system and not covered under Rules 7 and 8 10 11 a facility fire alarm which does not report fire alarm signals to the fire alarm receiving center or other 24/7 attended location operated by trained personnel and not covered under Rule 7 an out-of-service or impaired fire detection system required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy 12 an out-of-service or impaired fire detection system and not covered under Rule 11 13 14 15 16 17 an out-of-service or impaired fire suppression system required by NFPA 101 or UFC 3-600-01 for an existing occupancy an out-of-service or impaired fire suppression system and not covered under Rule 13 any impairment which would prevent a fire suppression system, fire detection system or fire alarm/notification system from automatically responding to a fire event not covered by Rules 3, 7, 11, or 13 an air compressor or supplementary air supply either out of service or out of automatic service serving any type of dry-pipe or pre-action sprinkler system two (2) or more fire pumps either out of service or out of automatic service in a fire protection water pump system/facility required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy 18 a fire pump either out of service or out of automatic service and not covered under Rule 17 one (1) or more pressure booster fire pumps is either out of service or out of automatic service providing supplementary pressure to fire suppression systems required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy a fire protection system pressure maintenance (jockey) pump out of service, out of automatic-service, or constantly running  all other FSDs 19 20 21 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 3 AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   19  NOTE: Failure to meet NFPA requirements may qualify for RAC vs FSD if the non-compliance is classified as a hazard. Examples include lack of emergency lighting or missing smoke detectors in sleeping quarters.  Contact the safety office if questions arise.   20  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERING ANALYSIS/REVIEW MATRIX Attachment 3 Table A3.1.  Fire Protection Engineering Analysis/Review Matrix. then the following is required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5 and stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. Rule If work involves and 1 a sprinkler system any of the following exist:  (a) providing a new or relocated point of connection to the water distribution system for installed water-based fire suppression systems. Connections must comply with AWWA Manuals 14 and 31.  (b) determining the applicable IBC requirements and NFPA standards to be applied, or, in the case where no such standard exists, the engineering study, judgments, and/or performance-based analysis and conclusions. (c) classifying room or area occupancy group.  (d) establishing the design approach (this includes system type, densities, device temperature rating, and spacing for each separate hazard occupancy). (e) establishing the characteristics of water supply to be used, such as main size and location, whether it is dead-end or circulating; and if dead-end, the distance to the nearest circulating main, as well as its minimum duration and reliability for the most hydraulically demanding design area. (f) evaluating when private or public water supplies are used, the flow test data, including date and time of test, who conducted test or supplied information, test elevation, static gauge pressure at no flow, flow rate with residual gauge pressure, hydrant butt coefficient, and location of test in relation to the hydraulic point of service. (g) determining the valving and alarm requirements to minimize potential for impairments and unrecognized flow of water. (h) designing to prevent microbial induced corrosion (MIC). The engineer of record shall make reasonable efforts to identify water supplies that could lead to MIC. Such efforts may consist of discussions with the local water purveyor and/or fire official, familiarity with conditions in the local area, or laboratory testing of water supplies. When conditions are found that may result in MIC contamination of the fire protection piping, the engineer shall design corrective measures. (i) determining required backflow prevention and metering specifications and details to meet AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   21  Rule If work involves and local water purveyor requirements, including maximum allowable pressure drop.  (j) establishing the performance specifications of all yard and interior fire protection components. relocating, replacing, installing 10 or fewer sprinkler heads and Rule 1 does not apply relocating, replacing, installing 11 or more sprinkler heads and Rule 1 does not apply relocating, replacing, installing 50 or more sprinkler heads a sprinkler system a sprinkler system a sprinkler system a detection and alarm system device relocating, replacing, installing 5 or fewer devices and/or appliances  a detection and alarm system a detection and alarm system relocating, replacing, installing 6 to 24 devices and/or appliances  relocating, replacing, installing 25 or more devices and/or appliances a fire protection control panel relocating a fire protection control panel replacing, or installing (and Rule 5 or 6 applies) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 a fire protection control panel replacing, or installing (and Rule 7 applies) relocating, replacing, installing  then the following is required and analysis not required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis not required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis not required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5   N/A documented with project file.  stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings.  N/A documented with project file.  stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings.  N/A documented with project file. stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. 11 12 13 a special fire suppression system (gaseous agents, dry chemical agents, carbon dioxide, etc.) a wet chemical fire suppression system over cooking equipment changes to the interior building structure/layout relocating, replacing, installing  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 documented with project file. less than 5% of the gross floor area is involved and the project does not add or move existing walls or change doors/openings analysis not required N/A   22  AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015 Rule If work involves and 14 15 16 changes to the interior building structure/layout more than 5% of the gross floor area is involved or the project moves existing walls, or adds new walls or changes doors/openings changes to the interior building structure/layout changes to the interior building structure/layout constructed through the S/R&M process constructed through the MCP process 17 an addition to an existing building 18 an addition to an existing building 19 an addition to an existing building 20 an addition to an existing building 21 a new building the original building and the adjacent building are not separated by a firewall meeting the requirements of the IBC or not all openings protected and the gross combined floor area is: a) < 15,000 square ft for Type I and II construction; or b) < 5,000 square ft for Type III, IV, and V construction the original building and the adjacent building are separated by a firewall meeting the requirements of the IBC with all openings protected and the gross combined floor area is: a) > 15,000 square ft for Type I and II construction; or b) > 5,000 square ft for Type III, IV, and V construction the original building and the adjacent building are not separated by a firewall meeting the requirements of the IBC or not all openings protected and the gross combined floor area is: a) > 15,000 square ft for Type I and II construction; or b) > 5,000 square ft for Type III, IV, and V construction constructed through the MCP process that is less than 3,000 square ft and does not involve any special occupancies listed in UFC 3-600-01, Chapter 6 22 a new building that is 3,000 square ft or greater 23 a new building is any special occupancies specifically addressed in UFC 3-600-01, Chapter 6 then the following is required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 and documented with project file. stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. documented with project file. analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 documented with project file; FPE review not required. analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. documented with project file. stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. AFI32-10141  5 FEBRUARY 2015   23  Rule If work involves and 24 a new building  constructed through the MCP process then the following is required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  25 26 the potable water distribution system the potable water distribution system 27 a non-potable water system  28 29 30 a non-potable fire protection water system  the electrical distribution system the electrical distribution system 31 a phased project  repairing without upgrading, modernizing, or relocating analysis not required repair including upgrading, modernizing, relocating, or replacing, or new installations upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or installing and where the system does not support fire suppression systems nor fire hydrants  upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or installing  upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or new installations; and transformers or substations are not located within 50 feet of any structure upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or new installations; and transformers or substations are located within 50 feet of any structure all phased projects will be considered cumulatively when determining the percentage of building involved and to determine if any other rule applies to the project analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis not required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  analysis not required analysis IAW UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-5  the initial analysis will evaluate all phases together  and stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. N/A stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. N/A stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. N/A stamped / sealed / signed analysis and drawings. documented with project file through all phases of construction. 