 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 35-114 26 MARCH 2015 Public Affairs AIR FORCE BRANDING AND TRADEMARK LICENSING PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AFPAA   Certified by: AFPAA/CL  (Mr. Larry Clavette) Pages: 11   This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  35-1,  Public  Affairs Management;  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  5535.09,  DoD  Branding  and Trademark  Licensing  Program;  Section  2260  of  Title  10,  United  States  Code,  Sections  1051 through  1127  of  Title  15,  United  States  Code,  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI) 5535.12, DoD Branding  and Trademark Licensing Program Implementation, and DoD 5500.7-R,  Joint  Ethics  Regulation.    It  provides  guidance  related  to  United  States  Air  Force  brand management, including the use of selected Air Force trademarks.  Ensure that all records created as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  Refer recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change Publication, and route AF Form 847s from the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.    “The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items”.    This instruction  applies  to  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC)  and  the  Air  National  Guard (ANG), unless otherwise noted.     2  AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015 Chapter 1 GENERAL GUIDELINES AND BACKGROUND 1.1.  Purpose.  This instruction provides background on the Air Force Branding and Trademark Licensing Program and guidance for those who use Air Force unique marks, logos, names, terms, designs, and symbols.  These various marks and indicia of the Air Force Brand distinguish  the Air Force from other components within the Department of Defense. 1.2.  Policy.  Consistent  with  10  U.S.C.  §  2260  and  DoDD  5535.09,  it  is  Air  Force  policy  to enhance and promote the Air Force Brand, in part by establishing and maintaining a program to license  marks  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,  to  protect  such  marks from  unauthorized  use,  and  to  register  qualifying  marks  with  the  United  States  Patent  and Trademark  Office  (USPTO).    Even  absent  formal  registration,  many  names,  logos,  symbols, insignia, official unit patches, and other devices unique to the Air Force are integral components of the Air Force Brand and shall be handled consistent with this instruction. 1.3.  Mission.  The  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program  operates  to  create awareness,  promote  public  goodwill,  and  enhance  the  positive  image  of  the  Department  of  the Air Force through various activities, including Brand marketing and promotion activities. 1.4.  Objectives.  Objectives include, but are not limited to: 1.4.1.  Enhance  the  name,  reputation  and  public  goodwill  of  the  Air  Force  by  ensuring  the Brand  is  recognizable  and  used  in  a  consistent,  responsible,  and  lawful  manner  by  both internal and external users. 1.4.2.  Control the use of Air  Force marks to maintain the integrity of the Air Force Brand, such  as  through  appropriate  trademark  licensing  activities  that  associate  the  Brand  with affordable, quality products and consistent with Air Force standards. 1.4.3.  Generate licensing revenues to reduce or eliminate the operating costs for the Program while also supporting the morale, welfare, and recreational activities of the nation’s Airmen. 1.4.4.  Support Air Force recruiting and retention efforts. AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015   3  Chapter 2 RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Director, Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA).  SAF/PA is the Air  Force’s  OPR  for  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program  in  accordance with Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive 1-28.  SAF/PA retains all policy-making authority.    SAF/PA  has  delegated  operational  responsibility  to  the  Air  Force  Public  Affairs Agency. 2.2.  Director,  Air  Force  Public  Affairs  Agency  (AFPAA).  The  Director  of  AFPAA/HQ  is assigned  operational  responsibility  for  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing Program.  The Director shall designate a Program Manager to execute and manage the program. 2.3.  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program  Manager  executes  and manages the program and is responsible for: 2.3.1.  Directing,  controlling,  coordinating  and  implementing  all  program  activities  to include: 2.3.1.1.  Overseeing  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program, including all operational, financial, and personnel activities of the program. 2.3.1.2.  Developing,  and  cultivating  internal  and  external  relationships  to  promote  the Air Force Brand, including the use of trademark licenses and educational programs. 2.3.1.3.  Reviewing  and  coordinating  commercial  uses  of  the  marks  or  indicia  which comprise the Air Force Brand by using appropriate contract mechanisms and educational initiatives. 2.3.1.4.  Maintaining and administering the Air Force trademark portfolio in accordance with DoDI 5535.12 to achieve the purposes outlined in this instruction. 2.3.2.  Collecting,  maintaining  and  reporting  all  financial  data  in  response  to  established policies  and  procedures,  to  include  quarterly  sales  volume  reports,  royalty  collections,  and any  other  data  required  to  manage  the  program  or  to  fulfill  any  financial  management  and reporting obligations. 2.3.3.  Coordinating  program  activities  with  trademark  licensing  personnel  in  other components of the DOD pursuant to DoDI 5535.12. 2.3.4.  Serving as the subject matter expert on all issues associated with the Air Force Brand. 2.3.5.  Establishing and maintaining the program’s website at http://www.trademark.af.mil/ to  ensure  it  is  functional,  informative,  and  includes  updated  guidance  for  the  licensing  and use of Air Force marks. 2.4.  U.  S. Air Force Academy (USAFA). 2.4.1.  Superintendent of HQ USAFA is generally responsible for: 2.4.1.1.  Establishing  and  administering  the  USAFA  Brand,  to  include  USAFA trademarks comprising the Brand.   4  AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015 2.4.1.2.  Coordinating  with  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program office  on  any  USAFA  activities  having  an  impact  on  the  Air  Force  Brand,  to  include being compliant with all policies and procedures established to promote the same. 2.4.2.  USAFA  may  license  and  retain  associated  fees  for  the  commercial  use  of  marks comprising the USAFA Brand consistent with 10 U.S.C. § 2260 and relevant implementing guidance. 2.4.3.  USAFA licensing is subject to compliance inspections by the Air Force Branding and Trademark Licensing Program office. 2.5.  Non-Appropriated Funds Instrumentalities (NAFI). 2.5.1.  Commander of the Air Force Services Activity is generally responsible for: 2.5.1.1.  Establishing  and  administering  any  NAFI  brands,  to  include  any  NAFI  marks which comprise those brands. 2.5.1.2.  Coordinating  with  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program office on any NAFI activities having an impact on the Air Force Brand, to include being compliant with all policies and procedures established to promote the same. 2.5.2.  In accordance with  DoDI 5535.12, NAFIs may license and retain associated fees for the commercial use of marks comprising any NAFI brands consistent with 10 U.S.C. § 2260 and relevant implementing guidance. 2.5.3.  Any  NAFI  mark  that  incorporates  all  or  a  portion  of  the  Air  Force  Symbol,  the  Air Force Emblem, or the Army Air Corps symbol (Hap Arnold wings) shall be assigned to the Air Force for inclusion in the Air Force trademark portfolio. 2.5.4.  All  NAFI  licensing  programs  are  subject  to  compliance  inspection  by  the  Air  Force Branding and Trademark Licensing Program office. 2.6.  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  Financial  Management  (SAF/FM).  SAF/FM  is  responsible for  the  receipts  and  expenditure  account  and  budget  policy  in  accordance  with  the  DFAS Trademark Finance Guide and applicable regulations. 2.7.  Legal Responsibilities. 2.7.1.  The  Office  of  the  Air  Force  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC)  is  responsible  for  the direction, control and coordination of Air Force inventions, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and matters relating to the same.  As such, SAF/GC is generally responsible for the  legal  aspects  of  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program,  to  include:  establishing  policy  on  all  legal  issues  concerning  the  program,  interfacing  with  other governmental agencies and/or branches of the government on legal issues concerning brand management  and  licensing;  providing  guidance  and  advice  to  the  Major  Command  legal offices  and  the  servicing  legal  offices  concerning  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark Licensing  Program;  and  providing  oversight  and  assistance  related  to  the  management, maintenance and administration of the Air Force trademark portfolio and the administration of trademark license agreements. 2.7.2.  Servicing legal offices, at every level, advise and assist local Air Force Public Affairs Offices,  as well as other Air Force personnel,  on all trademark activities  of a local  concern and  coordinates  with  SAF/GC  on  any  local  activities  affecting  the  Air  Force  trademark AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015   5  portfolio  or  with  a  potential  to  impact  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing Program. 2.8.  MAJCOM  Public  Affairs  Offices.  MAJCOM  Public  Affairs  Offices  are  responsible  for identifying  local  activities  having  a  potential  to  impact  the  Air  Force  Brand  and  coordinating those activities with the Program Manager. 2.9.  All Public Affairs Offices are responsible for: 2.9.1.  Verifying  that  any  elements  of  the  Air  Force  Brand,  when  used  internally  for  base newspapers,  websites,  magazines,  challenge  coins,  open  houses,  marketing  materials,  other publications  and  events  and  the  like  are  used  in  accordance  with  Attachment  2  of  this instruction. (T-3) 2.9.1.1.  Notifying internal users of improper use and display of marks and coordinating corrective action with users. (T-3) 2.9.2.  Notifying  the  Air  Force  Branding  and  Trademark  Licensing  Program  Manager  via website or email of known or suspected external (non-Air Force) violations. (T-3) 2.9.3.  Obtaining approval from unit commanders for external (non-Air Force) requests to use unit patches/emblems  and submitting documentation of approval  to  the Air Force Branding and  Trademark  Licensing  Program  Manager  through  the  email  or  mailing  address  found  at www.trademark.af.mil. (T-3)   6  AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015 Chapter 3 LICENSING 3.1.  Purpose.  To  establish  an  Air  Force  trademark  licensing  program  for  marks  owned  or controlled by the Air Force, to protect such marks from unauthorized use, and, at the discretion of  the  Air  Force,  to  register  such  marks  with  the  United  States  Patent  and  Trademark  Office (USPTO) when doing so is in the best interest of the Air Force. 3.2.  Uses.  Air  Force  marks  are  licensed  for  commercial  use  to  promote  and  enhance  the  Air Force Brand, reflect the Air Force core values, and distinguish the Air Force from other brands.  Air Force marks shall not appear on products having uses or themes inconsistent with these aims, to include products that are sexual in nature, can be associated with substance abuse, or promote any message or image that detracts or diminishes the Air Force Brand. AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015   7  Chapter 4 THE AIR FORCE BRAND  4.1.  Commercial Elements.  The following elements of the Air Force Brand are authorized for commercial use and may be considered for licensing to qualified entities: 4.1.1.  Air Force Symbol.  The Air Force Symbol is the official logo of the Air Force. 4.1.2.  Air  Force  Emblem.    The  emblem  is  comprised  of  the  Air  Force  Coat  of  Arms encircled by an outer border. 4.1.3.  Air Force One.  Air Force One is the call sign of any U.S. Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States.  The brand includes the call sign, as well as the distinctive trade dress of the aircraft commonly referred to as “Air Force One.” 4.1.4.  Air  Force  Thunderbirds.    The  Air  Force’s  premier  aerial  demonstration  team  is generally referred to as the Air Force Thunderbirds.  The brand includes, among other things, the Thunderbirds logo and the team’s distinctive trade dress. 4.1.5.  Any  other  names,  logos,  symbols,  insignia,  or  other  devices,  including  legacy symbols, enlisted chevrons, and occupational  badges, used by the Air Force and authorized for commercial use. 4.2.  Non-Commercial Elements.  The following elements of the Air Force Brand are limited to internal and/or official use.  They are generally not authorized for commercial use: 4.2.1.  Air  Force  Seal.    The  official  seal  of  the  Air  Force  is  for  internal,  official  use  only.  AFMAN 33-326, Management of Records, Attachment 2, defines the authorized uses of the Air Force Seal. 4.2.2.  Army  Air  Corps  Wings.    The  Army  Air  Corps  Wings,  commonly  referred  to  as  the Hap Arnold Wings, may be authorized for external use on a limited basis.  It is authorized for internal  use  when  appropriate  to  identify  historical  achievements,  such  as:    Air  Force birthday  celebrations,  ceremonies  for  current  and  former  Airmen  who  have  served  at  least 75% of their commitment before 2004, museum signage and historical displays. 4.2.3.  Any  other  names,  logos,  symbols,  insignia,  or  other  devices,  including  legacy symbols,  ribbons  and  related  devices,  and  uniform  patterns,  not  previously  authorized  for commercial use.  KATHLEEN A. COOK, Brigadier General, USAF Director of Public Affairs   8  AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFMAN 33-326, Management of Records, 25 November 2011 10 USC § 2260, Licensing of Intellectual Property: Retention of Fees, 28 January 2008 DoD Directive 5535.09, DoD Branding and Trademark Licensing Program, 19 December 2007 HAF MD 1-28, Director of Public Affairs, 23 April 2010 DoDI 5535.12, DoD Branding and Trademark Licensing Program Implementation, 13 September 2013 DoD 5500.07-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, August 1993 15 USC § 1051, Application for registration; verification DFAS Trademark Finance Guide, Management of DoD Branding and Trademark Revenues, 24 February 2011 Prescribed Forms.  No forms are prescribed by this publication. Adopted Forms.  AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFHRA—Air Force Historical Research Agency AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFPAA—Air Force Public Affairs Agency AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command ANG—Air National Guard CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction RDS—Records Disposition Schedule MARK—Includes any trademark, service mark, collective mark, or certification mark. NAFI—Non-Appropriated Funds Instrumentalities OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015   9  SAF/GC—Office of the Air Force General Counsel SAF/FM—Secretary of the Air Force Financial Management SAF/PA—Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs USAFA—U.S. Air Force Academy USPTO—United States Patent and Trademark Office Terms QUALIFIED  ENTITY—A  company  or  organization  that  has  been  vetted  by  the  Air  Force Trademark  Licensing  Program  Office  and  determined  to  engage  in  business  practices  and associations that would support and promote the objectives of the Air Force Branding program.    10  AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015 Attachment 2 PROPER INTERNAL USE OF THE AIR FORCE SYMBOL, AIR FORCE EMBLEM A2.1.  Air Force Symbol.  Each component of the Symbol represents different aspects of the Air Force that creates the Air Force’s overall identity.  Therefore, the Symbol should be displayed in a position of prominence and in a manner that brings positive attention to the Air Force.  The Air Force  Symbol  should  only  be  included  in  a  product  when  it  adds  to  the  overall  design  and supports the mission of the Air Force. A2.1.1.  In most cases, use of the Symbol should be in  lieu of the Army  Air Corps symbol (Hap  Arnold  Wings).    Acceptable  uses  of  the  Army  Air  Corps  Wings  include:  Air  Force birthday  celebrations,  ceremonies  for  current  and  former  Airmen  who  have  served  at  least 75% of their commitment before 2004, museum signage and historical displays. A2.2.  Proper Display of the Air Force Symbol A2.2.1.  Changing  the  size  of  the  Air  Force  Symbol,  as  necessary,  is  encouraged  when appropriate.    However,  the  proportions  of  the  Air  Force  Symbol  are  fixed  and  must  not  be altered.  Proportions can be found at www.trademark.af.mil. A2.2.2.  Stretching/distorting  the  Air  Force  Symbol,  logotype,  or  signature  (the  Air  Force Symbol/logotype combination) is prohibited. A2.2.3.  Adding or subtracting anything from the Air Force Symbol, including shadows and special effects, or creating hybrids with other graphics, is prohibited. A2.2.4.  The only graphic that may be cradled inside the wings of the Air Force Symbol are unit patches  of  organizations  at  MAJCOM-level  or  higher.  The  patches  must  be  approved  and registered  with  the  Air  Force  Historical  Research  Agency.    Only  one  emblem  may  be  cradled inside the wings. A2.2.4.1.  When cradling a qualified patch between the wings, the cradled emblem is half the  height  of  the  Air  Force  Symbol.    The  patch  must  be  centered  evenly  between  the wings with half of the patch extending above the wing’s tips. A2.2.5.  Drawing or portraying objects coming through, protruding from,  hanging off of, or resting upon the Air Force Symbol is prohibited. A2.2.6.  Using  an  unapproved  color,  texture,  or  format  is  prohibited.    Approved  colors, textures and formats are listed at www.trademark.af.mil. A2.2.7.  The Air Force Symbol may appear on a patterned background, such as a patterned fabric or  website  background,  as  long  as  the  background  is  subdued  and  conservative  in  nature,  and there is a definitive separation between the background and the Air Force Symbol. A2.2.8.  There  must  be  a  square  stand-off  space,  or  negative  space,  around  the  Air  Force Symbol  that  is  equivalent  to  at  least  15%  the  width  of  the  Air  Force  Symbol.    No  other graphic elements or unapproved wording may encroach in this space. A2.2.9.  “U.S. Air Force” logotype. A2.2.9.1.  Use of “U.S.  Air Force” is not mandatory in conjunction with the use of the Air Force Symbol.  However, the preferred position when the logotype is used is beneath the Air AFI35-114  26 MARCH 2015   11  Force Symbol.  It is also acceptable to place the logotype on the right or left side of the Air Force Symbol.  Placing the logotype on the top of the Air Force Symbol is not allowed. A2.2.9.2.  The  correct  font  for  the  logotype  is  “Berthold  Akzidenz  Grotesk  bold  extended.”  If “Berthold Akzidenz Grotesk bold extended” is not available, use “Arial Black bold uppercase.” This font is required in all cases where the logotype appears under the Air Force Symbol. A2.2.10.  Only the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) is authorized to approve alternate wording to appear directly under the Air Force Symbol.  The approved list can be found at www.trademark.af.mil.  Alternate  wording not  approved by the CSAF  must incorporate a visual  separation  from  the  Air  Force  Symbol,  such  as  a  line,  color,  or  circle.    Words  or phrases should not distract from the Air Force Symbol. A2.2.11.  The Air Force Symbol can be made of building material such as glass, wood, brick, and metal and can appear in the color of the natural material being used. A2.2.12.  Multi-dimensional  designs  and  animations  of  the  Air  Force  Symbol  must  be coordinated with the Air Force Branding and Trademark Licensing Program office. Figure A2.1.  Air Force Symbol.  A2.3.  Air Force Emblem.  The Air Force Emblem should be used in lieu of the Air Force Seal in most cases.  Authorized uses and users of the Air Force Seal are identified in AFMAN 33-326, Management of Records, Attachment 2. A2.4.  Proper Display of the Department of the Air Force Emblem A2.4.1.  Stretching or distorting the Air Force Emblem is prohibited. A2.4.2.  Adding or subtracting anything from the Air  Force Emblem,  including shadows or special effects, is prohibited. A2.4.3.  The Air Force Emblem may be in black and white, color monochrome, pictorial, or sculptured relief form. A2.4.4.  The Air Force Emblem can be made of building material such as glass, wood, brick, and metal and can appear in the color of the natural material being used. Figure A2.2.  Department of the Air Force Emblem.   