BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-201118 DECEMBER 2006PersonnelAIR FORCE RESERVE OFFICER TRAININGCORPS (AFROTC) PROGRAMCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading and ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR: AF/A1DOSupersedes AFI 36-2011, 28 July 1994 Certified by: AF/A1D(Brig Gen Robert R. Allardice)Pages: 10This instruction implements AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, by specifyingresponsibilities for the Senior Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) program. It alsoimplements Title 10, United States Code, Sections 2005, 2101-2111; Title 37, United States Code, Section209; Title 5, United States Code, Section 8140; and Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 1215.08,Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) Programs, Jun 26, 2006. Ensure that all records createdas a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123(will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AirForce Records Distribution Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommendedchanges and questions about this publication to HQ AF/A1D using AF Form 847, Recommendation forChange of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain ofcommand. Field activities must route all supplements and implementing guidance through HQ AF/A1Dfor coordination and approval prior to publishing. This publication applies to the Air Force Reserve(AFRC). This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the privacy act(PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title10 United States Code, Section 2107 and Executive Order 9397, NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR FEDERALACCOUNTS RELATING TO INDIVIDUAL PERSONS, November 22, 1943. Forms affected by the PAhave an appropriate PA statement. System of records notice F036 AETC J Four-Year Reserve OfficerTraining Corps (AFROTC) Scholarship Program Files (June 11, 1997, 62 FR 31793) applies. SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes includeclarification of responsibilities for the activation and inactivation of AFROTC units; Adds a requirementfor AFROTC/CC to develop and implement scholarship programs targeted to increase enrollment inregional studies and languages of strategic importance to the Department of Defense (paragraph 2.6.7.);2AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 2006and Increases the time officers completing the AFROTC program will be ordered to EAD from 60 towithin 180 days of commissioning (paragraph 7.2.). AFROTC will publish the procedural guidance in adocument suitable for their use. 1.  Scope. AFROTC commissions officer trainees through a college campus program in response to AirForce officer accession requirements. 1.1.  Training Program. AFROTC prepares officer candidates through a program consisting of twophases, Academic Education and Field Training. The Academic Education phase is normally two orfour years in length. Cadets must complete the Academic Education and Field Training phases beforeappointment as an Air Force officer. 1.2.  Field Training (FT). AFROTC normally conducts FT at several Air Force bases during thesummer. Cadets who have completed the first two years of AFROTC (General Military Course(GMC)) will attend a shorter FT program. An extended FT will be utilized for all other cadets. 2.  Responsibilities:  2.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force or Designated Representative:  2.1.1.  Oversees overall program operation. 2.1.2.  Approves activation of new detachments. 2.1.3.  Signs AF Form 1268, Application and Agreement for the Establishment of an Air ForceReserve Officer Training Corps Detachment. 2.1.4.  Approves inactivation of detachments when the inactivation is at the initiative of the AirForce. 2.1.5.  Advises the USD(P&R) and the Military Services on the location of proposed ROTC unitsbefore releasing such information. 2.1.6.  Enters into a written contract as a condition of providing ROTC scholarships to studentsand determines appropriate reimbursement when a breach of contract occurs in accordance with10 USC § 2005 and 2107, the Air Force Form 1056, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps(AFROTC) Contract, and DoDI 1215.08, Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) Pro-gram. 2.2.  The Director of Airman Development and Sustainment (HQ AF/A1D):  2.2.1.  Develops program policy. 2.2.2.  Provides program guidance. 2.2.3.  Establishes cadet eligibility requirements. 2.2.4.  May grant exceptions to the minimum officer production in cases where specific weightingfactors are enumerated. 2.3.  The Commander of Air Education and Training Command (AETC/CC):  2.3.1.  Recommends to HQ USAF the activation and inactivation of AFROTC detachments. AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 200632.3.2.  Approves the inactivation of detachments when the inactivation is at the initiative of thehost university. 2.3.3.  Approves activation or inactivation of operating locations (OL) and advises HQ USAF. 2.3.4.  Will notify Major Command (MAJCOM) commanders of AETC’s need to establish a FieldTraining Unit (FTU) within their commands. 2.4.  The Commander of Air University (AU/CC):  2.4.1.  Recommends units for activation or inactivation to AETC/CC. 2.4.2.  Will coordinate with MAJCOM vice commanders the need to establish FTUs within theircommands. 2.5.  The Commander of Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools (AFOATS/CC):  2.5.1.  Supervises the execution of the program. 2.5.2.  Recommends units for activation or inactivation to AU/CC. 2.5.3.  Recommends the establishment of FTUs to AU/CC. 2.6.  The Commander of AFROTC (AFROTC/CC):  2.6.1.  Develops and implements policies and procedures to execute the ROTC program in accor-dance with this policy and DoDI 1215.08, Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) Pro-grams. 2.6.2.  Recommends units for activation or inactivation to AFOATS/CC. 2.6.3.  Prior to establishment of an ROTC unit, ensures an institution shall: 2.6.3.1.  Apply in writing. 2.6.3.2.  Be accredited fully by the appropriate regional accrediting association for post-sec-ondary colleges and schools. 2.6.3.3.  Agree to provide adequate physical facilities. 2.6.3.4.  Certify that it does not discriminate with respect to admission or subsequent treatmentof students on the basis of race/ethnicity, religion, national origin, or gender. 2.6.4.  The following factors should be evaluated when considering a unit for closure: 2.6.4.1.  The quality of the officers produced by the unit. 2.6.4.2.  The operations and maintenance cost of maintaining the unit. 2.6.4.3.  The number of officers produced to meet USAF commissioning goals from categoriesof officers that are difficult to achieve (e.g., technical academic majors, regional/area studiesprograms and foreign language). 2.6.4.4.  The numbers of officers produced by the unit. A 4-year unit normally shall commis-sion a minimum of 15 officers annually to remain viable. To accommodate yearly variances,viability will be determined by average production over a minimum of 5 years. 4AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 20062.6.5.  Shall take the following actions after determining a unit should be closed: 2.6.5.1.  Advise educational institutions whose ROTC units are not producing enough officersto justify DoD investment. AFROTC shall work closely with the institutions to restore officerproduction to acceptable levels. 2.6.5.2.  Advise the USD(P&R), through the chain-of-command, prior to initiating disestab-lishment procedures. 2.6.5.3.  May initiate disestablishment procedures when units continually fail to produceenough officers. Units approved for disestablishment by the Secretary of the Air Force(SecAF) shall be phased out with enough time to permit enrolled ROTC students to completethe program or offer the students a practical alternative for obtaining commissions. 2.6.6.  Establishes cadet admission and retention standards. 2.6.7.  Ensures the scholarship program is targeted primarily for students interested in pursuingdegrees that correspond with Air Force requirements. Develops and implements scholarship pro-grams to increase enrollment in regional studies and language training in regions and languages ofstrategic importance to the Department of Defense. Scholarships should be structured to supportstudy abroad opportunities, including language immersion and associated cadet travel, as well ascourse work at the host institution. 2.6.8.  Initiates actions to establish FTUs through the chain-of-command. 2.6.9.  Establishes base support agreements with host installations in support of FTUs. 2.6.9.1.  Annually reviews base support agreements with host installations. 2.6.9.2.  Coordinates host installation FTU manning issues between host installations and hostMAJCOM by 1 February of each year. 2.7.  Major Commands (MAJCOM). Will support the AFROTC program. 2.7.1.  MAJCOMs hosting AFROTC FTUs will: 2.7.1.1.  Plan for and fund the base support functions associated with FTUs. 2.7.1.2.  Appoint a Field Training Project Officer to interface with HQ AETC and AFROTCpersonnel. 2.7.1.3.  Provide appropriate manning assistance, as requested by the hosting base installation. 2.8.  Host Installation Commanders. Will support the AFROTC program. 2.8.1.  Host installation commanders supporting AFROTC FTUs will: 2.8.1.1.  Ensure a base support agreement is created with AFROTC/CC to outline specificresponsibilities in support of FTU events. 2.8.1.2.  Appoint an FTU Base Director in the grade of Lieutenant Colonel. The FTU BaseDirector will be responsible for managing matters pertaining to staffing, planning, and coordi-nation of all host installation activities in support of FTU. 2.8.1.3.  Appoint a base liaison in the officer grade of Captain or above or in the enlisted gradeof Master Sergeant or higher. Assign one additional liaison support person (any grade) forFTUs with more than 500 cadets assigned. AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 200652.8.1.3.1.  Liaison will be assigned and dedicated to FTU operations from the start ofIn-service Training (IST) through conclusion of FTU operations and on a part-time basis(year-round) prior to the beginning of IST. 2.8.1.3.2.  The liaison must be authorized to make Government Purchase Card (GPC) pur-chases with the ROTC GPC. 2.8.1.4.  Provide on-base lodging priority to FT staff. 2.8.1.5.  Ensure a base-support agreement is updated annually with AFROTC. 2.8.1.6.  Forward manning assist request through their respective MAJCOM functional NLT 1February prior to FT if unable to meet required FT execution manning levels. 2.8.1.6.1.  Notify AFROTC Training Office (AFROTC/DOT) NLT 1 February prior to FTregarding submission of the manning assist request. 2.9.  Medical Treatment Facility Commanders (MTF/CC).  2.9.1.  Provide medical examinations for AFROTC applicants and cadets prior to commissioning. 2.9.2.  Administer and provide medical services for AFROTC staff and cadets participating inAFROTC FT to include: 2.9.2.1.  Provide sick call outside standard morning Active Duty hours both during the dutyweek and weekends that meet FTU requirements. 2.9.2.2.  Ensure medical support is available during high-risk activities such as physical fitnesstraining, physical fitness testing, Leadership Reaction Course, Confidence Course, etc. 2.9.2.3.  Ensure a qualified medical provider is available during cadet inprocessing to reviewcadet prescriptions for quality control and compatibility to the FT environment. 2.9.2.4.  Ensure twenty-four hour, seven-day a week on-call ambulance service is available forduration of FT activities. 3.  AFROTC Membership:  3.1.  General Military Course (GMC) Membership. GMC members are fully eligible students whoformally participate in GMC aerospace classes and leadership lab (LLAB). Cadets may be membersof the GMC as non-scholarship or scholarship cadets. Non-scholarship cadets remain members of theGMC until they voluntarily withdraw, are dismissed, or enter the Professional Officer Course (POC).Scholarship cadets remain members of the GMC until they enter the POC or are disenrolled. 3.2.  POC Membership. POC members are students who have met all eligibility requirements, havebeen enlisted in the Obligated Reserve Section (ORS), and attend POC classes and LLAB. An individ-ual remains a POC member until disenrolled or commissioned. 3.2.1.  Contracted Member. Applicants selected for scholarships or POC membership will beenlisted in the ORS for a period of eight years. AFROTC will enlist the cadet using normal AirForce enlistment documents. The cadet must: 3.2.1.1.  Meet Air Force enlistment standards. Refer to AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force andSpecial Category Accessions. 3.2.1.2.  Have good moral character. 6AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 20063.2.1.3.  Meet Air Force Surgeon General medical standards for enlistment and commission-ing (applies to scholarship and POC cadets). 3.2.1.4.  Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative grade point average (CGPA) to compete for POCselection and maintain the minimum term GPA requirement established by the institution orAFROTC. 3.2.1.5.  Take at least the minimum credit hours specified in the institutional catalog to main-tain full-time student status. If the institution does not specify a full-time enrollment, HQAFROTC specifies a minimum of 12 hours for undergraduate level courses and 9 hours forgraduate level courses, including AFROTC courses. If the institution does not give credit forAFROTC courses, then the number of hours required for minimum full-time status for POC orscholarship purposes for any given term may be reduced by an amount equal to the number ofhours of the AFROTC coursework. 3.2.1.6.  Meet Defense Language Institute English Language Center requirements before entryinto the POC and before commissioning (applies to non-native English-speaking cadets). 3.2.1.7.  Sign AF Form 1056, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Contract.AFROTC will obtain consent of a parent or legal guardian if the enlistee is a minor as definedby the law of the jurisdiction where the contract is signed. The contract outlines the responsi-bilities of the Air Force and the enlistee. The AF Form 1056 is kept in the enlistee’s personnelfile at the detachment until commissioning. 4.  Who May Not Be AFROTC Members:  4.1.  Conscientious objectors. 4.2.  Present or former commissioned officers of any component of the Army, Navy, Air Force,Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or Merchant Marine. 4.3.  Officers of the Health Services and Mental Health Administration. 4.4.  Members of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 4.5.  Individuals on active duty with any military service. Note: Active duty members applying forentry into AFROTC must adhere to the criteria and restrictions outlined in AFI 36-2013, OfficerTraining School and Airman Commissioning Programs. 4.6.  Former enlisted members of the regular armed forces whose DD Form 214, Certificate ofRelease or Discharge From Active Duty, contains either no code or a code disqualifying them fromreenlistment. 4.7.  Individuals separated from military service who did not receive an "Honorable" discharge. 4.8.  Applicants who complete AFROTC Field Training and are not recommended for POC entry. 4.9.  Students whose convictions do not allow them to accept worldwide assignment, combat duty, orassignments involving nuclear weapons. 4.10.  Students who have an active duty service commitment from another commissioning program.Exception: student receives a conditional release from the Service in question and receives a waiverfrom AFROTC. AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 200675.  Scholarship Program. AFROTC is authorized by 10 USC § 2107 to have a scholarship program.Scholarships are based on Air Force requirements and individual merit. At least 50 percent of the scholar-ship cadets must qualify for in-state tuition rates at their respective institutions and receive tuition benefitsat that rate. 5.1.  High School Scholarship Program (HSSP). The primary purpose of the HSSP is to attract qualityhigh school seniors interested in pursuing a college degree and earning a commission in the UnitedStates Air Force. Information regarding program eligibility requirements, application procedures, andthe on-line application is found through the AFROTC website at www.afrotc.com. To be eligible forscholarship consideration the applicant must: 5.1.1.  Be a U.S. citizen. 5.1.2.  Be a high school graduate or hold an equivalent certificate. 5.1.3.  Be at least 17 years old prior to enlisting. 5.1.4.  Not be (or have been) enrolled as a full-time student in a junior college or university exceptfor joint high school-college programs. 5.1.5.  Submit all required application items listed on-line at www.afrotc.com by the publisheddeadlines. 5.2.  In-College Scholarship Program (ICSP). The ICSP is designed as a recruiting and retention vehi-cle to help AFROTC meet officer production goals. This program is a “flexible partner” allowingAFROTC to tailor programs to meet specific officer production needs. The availability of in-collegescholarships is directly linked to higher headquarters-directed budget and production considerations. 5.2.1.  AFROTC offers both competitive and fully-qualified in-college scholarships. 5.2.1.1.  The competitive in-college scholarship program requires potential applicants to applyand be nominated by the Detachment Commander. The competitive programs are open to allacademic majors, and are awarded based upon merit. 5.2.1.2.  The fully qualified in-college scholarship program requires potential applicants tomeet all eligibility requirements and be nominated by the Detachment Commander. 5.3.  Enlisted commissioning programs. There are several AFROTC programs available to enlistedpersonnel desiring to obtain a baccalaureate degree and a commission. The guiding instruction forthese programs is AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School and Enlisted Commissioning Programs. Thelatest information on these commissioning programs can be found at any Base Education and TrainingOffice or from the AFROTC Enlisted Scholarship Section (AFROTC/RRUE) or online at http://www.afoats.af.mil/AFROTC/EnlistedComm/EnlistedCommissioning.asp . 6.  Disenrollment, Discharge or Involuntary Call To Extended Active Duty (EAD):  6.1.  HQ AFROTC/CC may disenroll a contract cadet for: 6.1.1.  Humanitarian considerations and personal hardship beyond the individual’s control. 6.1.2.  Medical disqualification. 6.1.3.  Transfer to another military commissioning program. 6.1.4.  Failure to meet AFROTC or institution scholastic standards. 8AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 20066.1.5.  Failure to meet military retention standards. 6.1.6.  Indifference to training. 6.1.7.  Breach or anticipated breach of the AFROTC contract. 6.2.  Detachment commanders will initiate investigations for possible disenrollment/dismissal fromthe AFROTC program for contract cadets failing to maintain military and academic retention stan-dards. 6.2.1.  Appointment of an investigating officer and a written disenrollment investigation report isnot required for a cadet exercising the “First Year (Freshman) option.” 6.3.  Cadets disenrolled from AFROTC are discharged from the USAFR (ORS), unless ordered forinvoluntary call to EAD. 6.4.  Contract cadets who are disenrolled or decline appointment incur an active duty service commit-ment and are subject to reimbursement as outlined in AF Form 1056. 6.4.1.  Involuntary call to extended active duty service is the primary means of reimbursement foreducation. 7.  Active Duty of AFROTC Graduates:  7.1.  The SecAF, upon recommendation from the AFROTC/CC, will ordinarily recommend to SecDefto appoint as a second lieutenant a contract cadet who successfully completes the military and aca-demic requirements of the AFROTC program once the cadet is awarded a bachelor’s degree or anauthorized institution official certifies the cadet has qualified for a degree, which will be conferred ata later date. 7.2.  Officers successfully completing the AFROTC program will be ordered to EAD within 180 daysof commissioning, unless: 7.2.1.  HQ AFPC/DPPAO approves an educational or administrative delay requested by the cadet. 7.2.2.  Changing Air Force end strengths or requirements dictate a delay. 8.  Forms Prescribed:  8.1.  AF Form 1056, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Contract. 8.2.  AF Form 1268, Application and Agreement for the Establishment of an Air Force Reserve OfficerTraining Corps Detachment. ROGER A. BRADY,  Lieutenant General, USAF DCS/Manpower and Personnel AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 20069Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References Title 5, United States Code, Section 8140 Title 10, United States Code, Sections 2005, 2101-2111 Title 37, United States Code, Section 209 DoDI 1215.08, Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (SROTC) Program, 26 Jun 06 AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and Special Category Accessions, 7 Apr 99 AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Enlisted Commissioning Programs (ECP), 11 Jul 06 Abbreviations and Acronyms AETC/CC—Commander, Air Education and Training Command AFOATS/CC—Commander, Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps AFROTC/CC—Commander, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps AFROTC/RRUE—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Enlisted Scholarship Section AU/CC—Commander, Air University CGPA—Cumulative Grade Point Average DoD—Department of Defense EAD—Extended Active Duty FT—Field Training FTU—Field Training Unit GMC—General Military Course GPC—Government Purchase Card HQ AFPC/DPPAO—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center, Directorate of Personnel ProgramManagement, Personnel Procurement and Development Division, Line Officer Procurement Branch HQ USAF/A1D—Headquarters United States Air Force, Director of Airman Development andSustainment HSSP—High School Scholarship Program ICSP—In-College Scholarship Program IST—In-service Training 10AFI36-2011   18 DECEMBER 2006LLAB—Leadership Lab MAJCOM—Major Command MTF/CC—Medical Treatment Facility Commander OL—Operating Location ORS—Obligated Reserve Section POC—Professional Officer Course SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SecDef—Secretary of Defense Terms First Year Freshman Option—High school scholarship recipients incur an active duty servicecommitment effective the first day of attendance at Aerospace Studies classes or LeadershipLaboratory in their sophomore year. High school scholarship recipients have the right to relinquishscholarship benefits via the First Year Freshman Option and be disenrolled from Air Force ROTCwithout any obligation any time during the freshman year. Such action, however, may jeopardizethe cadet's future entry into any commissioning program. 