BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2816 04 AUGUST 2016 Personnel INSPECTOR GENERAL AWARDS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/IGQ  Supersedes:  AFI 36-2816, 2 February 2011  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 13 This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations. In  collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve  (HQ  USAF/RE),  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  and  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and Services  (HQ  USAF/A1),  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Manpower  and  Reserve Affairs)  (SAF/MR)  develops  HRM  policy  for  the  TF  HRM  Governance.    This  instruction describes  the  annual  John  P.  Flynn,  Howard  W.  Leaf,  Junius  W.  Jones  Inspector  General Awards, Air Force Office of Special Investigations individual and unit awards, and the Air Force Inspection Agency Platinum Eagle recognition program. It explains eligibility requirements, the selection  process,  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  Inspector  General’s  (SAF/IG)  award presentation.    It  also  outlines  procedures  for  presenting  Performance  Recognition  Coins.    This publication  applies  to  all  major  command  (MAJCOM),  numbered  air  force,  (NAF),  field operating agency (FOA), direct reporting unit (DRU), Joint Force Headquarters – State (JFHQ-St), and wing activities with a trained/certified inspector general (IG).  This instruction applies to the  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  personnel.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a result  of  processes  described  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW) AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847 from the field through the appropriate MAJCOM IG. 2 AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 This  publication  requires  the  collection  and  or  maintenance  of  information  protected  by  the Privacy Act  (PA) of 1974.  The authorities to collect  and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Chapter 857.  Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.  The applicable Privacy Act System of Record Notice(s) F036 AF PC V, Awards and Decorations apply. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. This instruction has administrative and reference updates. A new category (Category V) has been added to the Flynn Award.  This category is for National Guard State Joint Force Headquarters and that group has been  removed  from  Category  III.    The  Leaf  Award  now  has  four  categories,  points  have  been assigned  to  the  three  selection  criteria  and  headings  identified  for  the  AF  IMT  1206.    A  new annual award, the Junius W. Jones Inspector General Award, has been added.  The Jones award recognizes the outstanding Commander’s Inspection Program.  The Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) individual special agent and unit awards program are added.  Procedures for presenting Inspector General Performance Recognition Coins were added. 1.  John P.  Flynn Inspector General Awards 1.1.  Award  Description.  The  John  P.  Flynn  Inspector  General  awards  recognize  the Inspector  General  Complaints  Resolution  Program  Office  that  best  embodies  the  six fundamental  characteristics  of  Lieutenant  General  Flynn’s  leadership  model:  integrity, justice,  compassion,  loyalty,  courage,  and  spirit.  Consideration  should  be  given  to  the  IG offices whose performance is proactive as well as above and beyond the completion of day-to-day mission requirements. 1.2.  Award Categories: 1.2.1.  Category I.  Installation level complaints resolution program office. 1.2.2.  Category  II.    Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC)  and  Air  National  Guard (ANG) wing-level complaints resolution program office. 1.2.3.  Category  III.    Numbered  Air  Force  (NAF)  /  DRU  /  FOA  or  equivalent-level complaints resolution program office. 1.2.4.  Category IV.  MAJCOM-level complaints resolution program office. 1.2.5.  Category V.  Joint Force Headquarters – State (JFHQ-St). 1.3.  Award  Eligibility.    IG  offices  in  the  above  categories  are  eligible  regardless  of rank/grade structure or number of personnel. 1.4.  Selection  Criteria.    Criteria  are  based  solely  on  complaints  resolution  activities.  Other activities, such as inspections, exercise evaluation, etc., are not to be considered. 1.4.1.  Leadership and Job Performance (50 points).  Examples may include (but are not limited  to)  noteworthy  management  achievements,  significantly  improving  processes  or dealing with complex problems. AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 3 1.4.2.  Initiative (25 points).  Examples may include (but are not limited to) synopsis of the innovation or unique organizational achievement that positively contributes to the Air Force Complaints Resolution Program. 1.4.3.  Training (25 points).  Examples may include (but are not limited to) originality of training initiatives, quality of development, importance to the organization, and degree of completion. 2.  The Howard W.  Leaf Inspector General Awards. 2.1.  Award  Description.    The  Howard  W.  Leaf  Inspector  General  awards  recognize  the outstanding enlisted, officer, and civilian inspectors in the United States Air Force assigned to a MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or Wing IG team. 2.2.  Award Categories. 2.2.1.  Category  IA  Enlisted  and  Category  IB  Civilian  (GS-5  –  GS-11).   Nominees  will be inspectors in the grade of senior master sergeant and below and civilians in the grade of GS-5 through GS-11 assigned to a MAJCOM, FOA, DRU. (T-1). 2.2.2.  Category IIA Officer and Category IIB Civilian (GS-12 – GS-15). Nominees will be inspectors in the grade of second lieutenant through colonel and civilians in the grade of GS-12 through GS-15 assigned to a MAJCOM, FOA, DRU. (T-1). 2.2.3.  Category IIIA Enlisted and Category IIIB Civilian (GS-5 – GS-11).  Nominees are inspectors in the grade of senior master sergeant and below and civilians in the grade of GS-5 through GS-11 assigned to a wing. (T-1). 2.2.4.  Category IVA Officer and Category IVB Civilian (GS-12 – GS-15). Nominees are inspectors in the grade of second lieutenant through lieutenant colonel and civilians in the grade of GS-12 through GS-15 assigned to a wing. (T-1). 2.3.  Award  Eligibility.    MAJCOM,  FOA,  and  DRUs  are  authorized  one  nomination  for each award category.  Wing award nominations are submitted through the respective higher headquarters.   ANG wings will submit through their JFHQ-St. (T-1). 2.4.  Selection  Criteria.  IGQ functions (COMPLAINTS RESOLUTION) are not  included; any IGQ information submitted will be excluded from the evaluation process. 2.4.1.  Job  Performance  (60  points).    Significant  inspection  findings,  positive  mission impact or any other area that improves inspection quality. 2.4.2.  Initiative  (20  points). emphasizing what was done, why it was important and actual results achieved.   Improved inspection techniques,  guidelines,  etc. 2.4.3.  Professional  Qualities  (20  points).    Examples  may  include  military/professional bearing,  self-improvement,  efforts  to  share  experience  with  inspected  units  and representation of the AF in community activities. 3.  The Junius W.  Jones Inspector General Award. 3.1.  Award  Description.  The  Junius  W.  Jones  Inspector  General  Award  recognizes  the outstanding Commander’s  Inspection Program.   Consideration is  given to  the commander’s inspection  program  whose  performance  is  proactive  as  well  as  above  and  beyond  the completion of day-to-day mission requirements. 4 AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 3.2.  Award Categories. 3.2.1.  Category I.  Active Duty Wing Commander’s Inspection Program. 3.2.2.  Category  II.    Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC)  and  Air  National  Guard (ANG) Wing Commander’s Inspection Program. 3.2.3.  Category III.  FOA/DRU or Equivalent-level Commander’s Inspection Program. 3.3.  Award  Eligibility.    Commander’s  Inspection  Program  in  the  above  categories  are eligible  regardless  of  rank/grade  or  number  of  personnel.      FOA,  and  DRUs  are  authorized one  nomination  for  each  award  category.    Wing  award  nominations  are  submitted  through their respective higher headquarters. ANG wings will submit through their JFHQ-St. (T-1). 3.4.  Selection  Criteria.  Criteria may include complaints resolution  activities as a result of the Commander’s Inspection Program. 3.4.1.  Leadership and Job Performance (50 points).  Examples may include (but are not limited  to)  noteworthy  management  achievements,  significantly  improving  processes  or dealing with complex problems. 3.4.2.  Initiative (25 points).  Examples may include (but are not limited to) synopsis of the  innovation  or  unique  organizational  achievement  that  positively  contributes  to  the Commander’s Inspections Program. 3.4.3.  Training (25 points).  Examples may include (but are not limited to) originality of training initiatives, quality of development, importance to the organization, and degree of completion. 4.  AFOSI Individual Awards Program. 4.1.  Award  Description.  The  Special  Investigations  functional  annual  awards  program recognizes  credentialed  AFOSI  special  agents  (SAs)  in  AFOSI  who  have  excelled  in performance and made outstanding contributions to the Air Force special investigations and counterintelligence missions. 4.2.  Award Categories. 4.2.1.  Field  Grade  Officer  Special  Agent  of  the  Year.  This  award,  sponsored  by  the Association  of  Former  AFOSI  Special  Agents  (AFOSISA),  recognizes  an  active  duty officer special agent (SA) in the grades of major or lieutenant colonel. 4.2.2.  Captain  Lee  C.  Hitchcock  Company  Grade  Officer  Special  Agent  of  the  Year. This  award,  sponsored  by  AFOSISA,  is  in  honor  of  Special  Agent  (Captain)  Hitchcock who  was  killed  in  the  line  of  duty  on  10  September  1967  while  serving  in  Pleiku, Vietnam.  This  award  recognizes  an  active  duty  officer  SA  in  the  grades  of  second lieutenant through captain. 4.2.3.  Individual Mobilization Augmentee Officer Special Agent of the Year. This award recognizes an Air Force reserve officer SA regardless of grade. 4.2.4.  Chief Master Sergeant Herbert L. Hall Senior Enlisted Special Agent of the Year. This  award,  sponsored  by  AFOSISA,  is  in  honor  of  Special  Agent  (Chief  Master Sergeant)  Hall,  a  member  of  the  AFOSI  Hall  of  Fame  and  one  of  three  finalists  for assignment as the first Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force. This award recognizes an AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 5 active  duty  enlisted  SA  in  the  grades  of  master  sergeant  (MSgt)  through  chief  master sergeant (CMSgt). 4.2.5.  Enlisted  Special  Agent  of  the  Year.  This  award,  sponsored  by  AFOSISA, recognizes  an  active  duty  enlisted  SA  in  the  grades  of  senior  airman  through  technical sergeant. 4.2.6.  Individual  Mobilization  Augmentee  Enlisted  Special  Agent  of  the  Year.  This award recognizes an Air Force reserve enlisted SA regardless of grade. 4.2.7.  Rudolph M. Schellhammer Senior Civilian Special Agent of the Year. This award, sponsored by AFOSISA, is in honor of Special Agent Schellhammer, a charter member of the agency and of its Hall of Fame who selflessly dedicated over 35 years to AFOSI. This award recognizes a civilian SA in the grade of GS-14 or GS-15. 4.2.8.  Civilian  Special  Agent  of  the  Year.  This  award,  sponsored  by  AFOSISA, recognizes a civilian SA in the grades of GS-7 through GS-13. 4.2.9.  Host  Nation  Employee  of  the  Year  Award.  This  award  recognizes  the accomplishments  and  professional  contributions  of  a  host  nation  investigative  assistant, special  investigator,  or  other  foreign  national  employee  ineligible  for  recognition  in another category. 4.3.  Award Eligibility.  Awards are reserved for credentialed SAs assigned to AFOSI or to its external requirements, and to host nation employees who assisted in the accomplishment of the AFOSI mission. 4.4.  Selection  Criteria.  Nominations  for  these  awards  focus  on  "over  and  above" performance and contributions to AFOSI and the AF when compared to peers. 5.  AFOSI Unit Awards. 5.1.  Award  Description.    These  awards  recognize  units  whose  cumulative  investigative accomplishments and professional contributions warrant such recognition. 5.2.  Award Categories. 5.2.1.  Small  Detachment  of  the  Year.  This  award  honors  a  small  detachment  for demonstrated  performance  and  specific  achievements.  Detachments  with  fewer  than  10 manpower authorizations as of 31 December are eligible to compete for this award. 5.2.2.  Large  Detachment  of  the  Year.  This  award  honors  a  large  detachment  for demonstrated  performance  and  specific  achievements.  Detachments  with  10  or  more manpower authorizations as of 31 December are eligible to compete for this award. 5.2.3.  Squadron of the Year.  This award honors any AFOSI squadron for demonstrated performance and specific achievements. 5.3.  Award Eligibility. AFOSI activities opened on or after 1 July are ineligible to compete for  unit  awards  in  that  calendar  year.  Operating  locations  (OLs)  are  considered  as  a component of the parent unit and are not eligible to compete independently for awards. 5.4.  Selection  Criteria.    Nominations  for  these  awards  focus  on  "over  and  above" performance and contributions to AFOSI and the AF when compared to peers. 6 AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 6.  Submittal of Nominations. 6.1.  General.  Use  the  AF  IMT  1206,  Nomination  for  Award.    Nominations  are  one  page, single-spaced,  12  pitch,  Times  New  Roman  font,  bullet  format,  using  specifics  from  the applicable calendar year only.  Do not include classified information in the nomination. See Attachments 2 through 4 for more specific guidance. 6.2.  Submission  Timeline  for  the  IG  Awards.    The  Flynn,  Leaf,  and  Jones  award nominations for the previous calendar  year must be submitted to the award point of contact by 1 March. (T-1). Submission instructions are outlined in a “call for nominations” message released by SAF/IG. 6.3.  Submission  Timeline  for  the  AFOSI  Awards.    Award  nominations  for  the  previous calendar  year  must  be  submitted  to  the  award  point  of  contact  as  outlined  in  a  “call  for nominations” message released by AFOSI.7.  7.  Awards Selection Board. 7.1.  Inspector General Awards Selection Board.  The Deputy Inspector General chairs the Flynn, Leaf, and Jones Award Selection Boards, which include four colonels selected by the board  chair.    The  Inspector  General  may  decide  not  to  make  an  award  in  any  category  if he/she finds no suitable nominees. 7.2.  AFOSI  Awards  Selection  Process.  Board  membership  is  determined  by  AFOSI/CC. The  board  president  will  submit  recommendations  to  AFOSI/CC.  AFOSI/CC  selects  award recipients  for  each  category  of  individual  and  unit  awards  and  announces  award  winner selections to SAF/IG, Headquarters AFOSI and subordinate units.  AFOSI/CC selects award recipients  for  each  category  of  individual  and  unit  awards  and  announces  award  winner selections to SAF/IG, Headquarters AFOSI and subordinate units. 8.  Platinum Eagle Recognition Program. 8.1.  Program  Description.  A  semi-formal  process  to  recognize  and  drive  outstanding performance  and  innovation  throughout  the  Air  Force.    Intent  is  to  both  recognize outstanding individuals and teams as well as spread good ideas for AFIS implementation and execution.  The  Inspector  General  is  final  decision  authority  and  informs  MAJCOM  IG  or MAJCOM CC of recipient. 8.2.  Selection Criteria. 8.2.1.  Candidates  are  nominated  and  deliberated  by  Air  Force  Inspection  Agency inspection teams at weekly discussion forums following site visits, UEI Capstone, NSI or directed inspections. 8.2.2.  Selections  for  Platinum  Eagle  recognition  may  be  made  on  a  quarterly  basis, without a quota. 8.3.  Award Criteria. 8.3.1.  Nominees are forwarded to SAF/IG based on merit, performance, innovation and application  of  the  Air  Force  Inspection  System  for  consideration  by  The  Inspector General.  AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 7 9.  The Inspector General’s Performance Recognition Coins. 9.1.  Award  Criteria.  The  Inspector  General,  or  those  designated  by  the  IG,  may  present performance recognition coins to personnel of the Department of the Air Force, including the Air  National  Guard  and  Air  Force  Reserve,  and  to  personnel  of  other  military  departments and  Executive  Branch  agencies  for  outstanding  contributions  or  service  rendered  in furtherance  of  the  Air  Force  mission.    Presentation  of  a  coin  recognizes  either  continuing contributions  or  a  single  achievement.    The  purpose  of  a  coin  is  to  provide  the  Inspector General or his designee with an informal means to show recognition of and appreciation for superior  job  performance.    Non-appropriated  fund  employees  are  ineligible  to  receive  this award if the coin was purchased with appropriated funds. 10.  Description of Awards. 10.1.  Flynn  Award.  Category  award  recipients  receive  an  engraved  eagle  statue  trophy.  Names of winning organizations are also engraved on plaques permanently displayed in the Pentagon.  Flynn award winners are eligible to wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon or the Air Force Recognition Lapel Pin IAW AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards. 10.2.  Leaf  Award.  Award  recipients  receive  an  engraved  plaque.    Names  of  winning individuals are also engraved on plaques permanently displayed in the Pentagon.  Leaf award winners  are  eligible  for  the  Air  Force  Recognition  Ribbon  or  the  Air  Force  Recognition Lapel Pin IAW AFI 36-2805. 10.3.  Jones  Award.  Award  recipients  receive  an  engraved  plaque.    Names  of  winning individuals  are  also  engraved  on  plaques  permanently  displayed  in  the  Pentagon.    Jones award  winners  are  eligible  for  the  Air  Force  Recognition  Ribbon  or  the  Air  Force Recognition Lapel Pin IAW AFI 36-2805. 10.4.  AFOSI Individual Functional Awards.  Each individual award recipient will receive a trophy or other suitable award.  Award winners are eligible for the Air Force Recognition Ribbon IAW AFI 36-2805. 10.5.  AFOSI  Unit  Awards.  Award  winners  will  receive  a  trophy  or  other  suitable  award. (T-1).   Award winners are not eligible for the Air Force Recognition Ribbon IAW AFI 36-2805, para 1.8.2.1. 10.6.  Inspector  General’s  Performance  Recognition  Coins.  Coins  are  purchased  with appropriated funds IAW AFI 65-601, Vol. 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, Para 4.29.2..  The coins are to be presented as cast from the die without further embellishment, and cannot be personalized. 11.  Award Announcement and Presentation. 11.1.  Flynn Award.  SAF/IG will announce and present John P. Flynn award winners at the annual  Worldwide  Inspector  General  Conference  or  by  15  May.    In  addition,  all  nominees will receive letters of recognition signed by The Inspector General. 11.2.  Leaf  Award.    SAF/IG  will  announce  Howard  W.  Leaf  award  winners  at  the  annual Worldwide  Inspector  General  Conference  or  by  15  May.  SAF/IG  or  a  designated representative  will  notify  the  commander  and  recipients  of  the  winner  and  plan  for presentation.    In  addition,  all  nominees  will  receive  letters  of  recognition  signed  by  The Inspector General. AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 11.3.  Jones  Award.  SAF/IG  will  announce  Junius  W.  Jones  award  winners  at  the  annual Worldwide  Inspector  General  Conference  or  by  15  May.  SAF/IG  or  a  designated representative  will  notify  the  commander  and  recipients  of  the  winner  and  plan  for presentation.    In  addition,  all  nominees  will  receive  letters  of  recognition  signed  by  The Inspector General. 11.4.  AFOSI  Awards.  Individual and unit award winners will be recognized at the annual AFOSI Awards Banquet or by 15 May. AFOSI/CC or a designated representative will notify the commander and recipients of the winner and plan for presentation. 11.5.  Inspector  General’s  Performance  Recognition  Coins.  Individuals  and  groups  may be  recognized  on  the  spot  or  at  an  appropriate  meeting,  such  as  an  inspection  outbrief  or commander’s call. 8  GREGORY A. BISCONE, Lt General, USAF The Inspector General AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 9 May 14 AFPD 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection System, 26 Apr 06 AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 14 Mar 13 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08 Adopted Forms.  AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, current version AF IMT 837, Recommendation for Change of Publication, current version Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFOSISA—Association of Former OSI Special Agents AFOSI/CC—Commander, Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFOSI/CV—Vice Commander, AFOSI AFOSI/CX—Executive Director, AFOSI AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command ANG—Air National Guard ASB—Awards Selection Board DoD—Department of Defense DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FIS—Field Investigations Squadron FOA—Field Operating Agencies GS—General Schedule [Federal Employee] HQ AFOSI/PA—Public Affairs, Headquarters AFOSI IAW—in accordance with IG—Inspector General IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee JFHQ-St—Joint Forces Headquarters-State 10 AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations JTR—Joint Travel Regulation MAJCOM—Major Command NAF—Numbered Air Force OLs—Operating Locations OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility POC—Point of Contact SA—Special Agent SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of the Inspector General SAF/IGI—Secretary of the Air Force, Inspections Directorate SAF/IGQ—Secretary of the Air Force, Complaints Resolution Directorate SAF/PA—Public Affairs, Headquarters AF  AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 11 Attachment 2 REQUIREMENTS FOR JOHN P. FLYNN INSPECTOR GENERAL AWARD NOMINATION PACKAGE A2.1.  Part I Letter of Transmittal (One Original). A2.1.1.  Include organization title, command and location. A2.1.2.  Do not include laudatory comments or endorsements. A2.1.3.  Have  MAJCOM  (to  include  wing  submissions),  ,  FOA,  or  DRU  commander/vice commander sign the letter.  The Adjutant General (TAG) or Adjutant General, Air (ATAG) will sign the letter for ANG wings. A2.2.  Part II Narrative Justification (One Original). A2.2.1.  Provide justification in bullet format, front side only, AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award. Information submitted on back page of AF IMT 1206 is not considered. Headers for the three subcategories (Leadership and Job Performance; Initiative; and Training) should be included.    Category  is  either  IA/B,  IIA/B,  IIIA/B,  or  IVA/B;  commander  is  the  IG’s commander. A2.2.2.  The  nomination  should  emphasize  specific,  tangible  achievements  which  benefited the unit, MAJCOM, or equivalent, and the Air Force.  Include quantifiable achievements in both  day-to-day  activities  and  initiatives  that  go  above  and  beyond  expectations.  This information  should  be  drawn  from  any  management  indicators  used  to  evaluate  complaint resolution  programs.    Use  the  headings  indicated  in  paragraphs  1.4.1.-1.4.3.  Avoid  inflated terms and generalities; 15 lines maximum. A2.3.  Photo.Provide  official  photograph  for  individual  award  nominees.    Team  and  group nominees’  photographs  should  be  of  professional  quality.    All  photos  should  be  submitted  in digital format.  12 AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 Attachment 3 REQUIREMENTS FOR HOWARD W. LEAF INSPECTOR GENERAL AWARD NOMINATION PACKAGE A3.1.  Part I Letter of Transmittal (One Original). A3.1.1.  Include nominee’s name, grade, duty title, organization, command, and location. A3.1.2.  Do not include laudatory comments or endorsements. A3.1.3.  Have MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU commander/vice commander sign the letter.   The Adjutant  General  (TAG)  or  Adjutant  General,  Air  (ATAG)  will  sign  the  letter  for  ANG wings. A3.2.  Part II Narrative Justification (One Original). A3.2.1.  Provide justification in bullet format, front side only, AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.  Information submitted on back page of AF IMT 1206 is not considered. Category is either I, II, III or IV; commander is either MAJCOM, , FOA, DRU or Wing IG. A3.2.2.  Use  the  headings  indicated  in  paragraphs  2.4.1.-2.4.3.  Cite  specific  actions  and results.  Avoid inflated terms and generalities; 15 lines maximum.  AFI36-2816  04 AUGUST 2016 13 Attachment 4 REQUIREMENTS FOR JUNIUS W. JONES AWARD NOMINATION PACKAGE A4.1.  Part I Letter of Transmittal (One Original). A4.1.1.  Include nominee’s name, grade, duty title, organization, command, and location. A4.1.2.  Do not include laudatory comments or endorsements. A4.1.3.  Have  MAJCOM,  FOA,  or  DRU  commander/vice  commander  sign  the  letter.    The Adjutant  General  (TAG)  or  Adjutant  General,  Air  (ATAG)  will  sign  the  letter  for  ANG wings. A4.2.  Part II Narrative Justification (One Original). A4.2.1.  Provide justification in bullet format, front side only, AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.  Information submitted on back page of AF IMT 1206 is not considered. Category is either I, II or III; commander is either MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU IG. A4.2.2.  Use  the  headings  indicated  in  paragraphs  3.4.1.-3.4.3.  Cite  specific  actions  and results.  Avoid inflated terms and generalities; 15 lines maximum.  