BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2623 2 AUGUST 2017 Personnel OCCUPATIONAL ANALYSIS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A1PT  Supersedes:  AFI36-2623, 10 September 2012  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Jeffrey R. Mayo) Pages: 13 This publication implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development.  It  describes the program description,  purpose,  and  uses  of  Air  Force  occupational  analysis  products  and  services.    This publication describes the processes and procedures taken to collect, analyze, distribute, and apply occupational  analysis  outcomes  to  establish  or  adjust  Air  Force  Specialty  (AFS)  programs  or civilian occupational series; and explains how to  request occupational studies.  This instruction applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air National Guard (ANG), and Air Force Reserve (AFR) personnel.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops  personnel  policy for military  accession policy.   This  publication may not  be supplemented.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary  responsibility  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    This  publication  directs  collecting  and maintaining  information  subject  to  the  Privacy  Act  of  1974,  Title  5  United  States  Code  (USC) section  (§)  552a.    The  authorities  to  collect  and  or  maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  this publication are 10 USC § 8013 and Executive Order (EO) 9397.  Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.  The applicable PA System of Records Notices (SORN) F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request  File, and F036 AF PC Q,  Personnel Data Systems (PDS) are available online at http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number 2 AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 following the compliance statement.  See Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms  Management,  Table  1.1.  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance items. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  is  substantially  revised  and  should  be  completely  reviewed.    This  revision restructures  and  realigns  information  in  each  chapter  to  provide  clear  and  concise  guidance; updates  referenced  directives  and  administrative  instructions  throughout;  and  updates  terms, abbreviations, and the content and format of attachment 2. AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 3 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  Program  Description.  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC)  houses  the  Air Force  Occupational  Analysis  (OA)  Program  within  the  AETC  Occupational  Analysis  Division (OAD).  The purpose of this Air Force Program is to equip senior leaders and managers of Air Force  personnel  and  training  programs  with  objective  and  factual  information  about  Air  Force occupations  and  civilian  occupational  series.    The  role  of  OAD  is  to  conduct  occupational studies,  develop  survey  instruments,  analyze  the  data  collected,  and  provide  actionable  AFS information.  Decision-makers  associated  with  personnel  program  responsibilities  for  AFSs  use OA  data  to  justify  or  change  personnel  policies  and  to  refine  and  maintain  occupational structures.  Decision-makers associated with training program responsibilities for AFSs use OA data  to  establish,  validate,  and  adjust  training.    Additionally,  OA  data  is  provided  to  personnel within  the  AETC  Airman  Advancement  Division  (AETC  AAD)  to  ensure  Weighted  Airman Promotion System (WAPS) promotion tests are relevant, fair, and reliable. 1.2.  Program  Policy.  AF/A1 is responsible for policy oversight of the Air Force OA Program and AETC OAD manages the program within the scope of this instruction. 1.3.  Program  Purpose.  Occupational analysis is integral to providing an objective and factual orientation  for three force development  tenets:  personnel  classification and utilization (used to identify  tasks  performed  at  each  career  stage  and  to  validate  occupational  structures); capabilities-based  training  (used  to  identify  knowledge  needed,  and  specific  tasks  necessitating training  to  meet  job  performance  requirements);  and  WAPS  testing  (used  to  identify operationally  relevant  duties  and  tasks  for  test  development  to  promote  and  retain  the  best Airmen). 4 AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 Chapter 2 OCCUPATIONAL SURVEY PROCESS 2.1.  Overview: 2.1.1.  AETC  OAD  conducts  occupational  studies  on  enlisted  AFSs  on  a  periodic  basis (typically a 3- to 4-year cycle) and upon request, if out of cycle.  Special studies, to include Special  Duty  Identifiers  (SDI)  and  Reporting  Identifiers  (RI),  officer  AFSs,  and  civilian occupational series, are conducted upon request.  All career field members have pivotal roles with  the  constructive  outcomes  of  occupational  studies.    (Note:    additional  guidance, processes and procedures, outside of this publication, may be employed for special studies.) 2.1.2.  AETC  occupational  analysts  coordinate  all  occupational  studies  with  appropriate career field and functional managers, and the training community for matters such as: 2.1.2.1.  Confirming appropriate time to conduct an occupational study. 2.1.2.2.  Verifying site visit and clearance. 2.1.2.3.  Establishing unique data collection procedures and requirements. 2.1.2.4.  Establishing guidance on use and reporting of occupational study results. 2.2.  Occupational Study Requests.  Submit requests for out-of-cycle enlisted or special studies in  memorandum  format  (reference  Attachment  2).    The  Air  Force  Career  Field  Manager (AFCFM) signs requests for all studies.  Requests must include: 2.2.1.  AFS, family of AFSs, or civilian occupational series to be studied. 2.2.2.  Issues and requirements for the occupational study. 2.2.3.  Date results required. 2.2.4.  Purpose for the data and application(s). 2.2.5.  Recommended  site  visits  for  subject-matter  expert  (SME)  interviews  during  the  job inventory (JI) development. 2.2.6.  Points of contact. 2.3.  Data Collection Instruments.  AETC OAD analysts will: 2.3.1.  Develop  a  JI  comprised  of  a  complete  list  of  tasks  performed  or  knowledge  areas applied by members of an AFS or civilian occupational series.  The JI development process begins with examining core training and classification documents such as, but not limited to: 2.3.1.1.  Career field  education and training plans (CFETP), focusing on course training standards (CTS) and specialty training standards (STS) contained in CFETP, Part II; and plans of instruction (POI). 2.3.1.2.  Classification  documents,  such  as  Air  Force  Enlisted  Classification  Directory (AFECD), Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD), and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Handbook of Occupational Groups and Families. 2.3.1.3.  Appropriate Air Force directives (AFIs, AFMANs, etc.). AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 5 2.3.1.4.  Previous occupational studies. 2.3.1.5.  Career development course (CDC) material. 2.3.2.  Refine  the  task  or  knowledge  listing  by  visiting  training  centers  and  operational locations selected by AFCFMs to interview SMEs who will: 2.3.2.1.  Develop the content and organization of the JI (duty areas and task or knowledge statements). 2.3.2.2.  Develop AFS background questions of interest. 2.3.2.3.  Associate or match duty areas and task or knowledge statements to core training and classification documents. 2.3.3.  Coordinate  issues  and  schedules  with  customers:    AFCFM,  MAJCOM  functional managers, training pipeline managers (TPM), and technical training managers (TM). 2.3.4.  Develop  additional  survey  instruments  to  collect  data  from  select  samples  of  survey participants  (e.g.,  7-  and  9-skill  level  members,  and  when  warranted,  Chief  Enlisted Managers (CEM)).  These survey instruments collect task factor data (training emphasis (TE) and task learning difficulty (TLD) ratings) reported for tasks contained within the JI. 2.4.  Survey Administration. 2.4.1.  Surveys  are  administered  to  all  eligible  personnel  in  the  targeted  AFS  or  civilian occupational  series  through  direct  e-mail.    The  survey  sample  is  based  on  population distributions and personnel listings generated by the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC). 2.4.2.  Due  to  the  nature  and  critical  uses  of  occupational  survey  data  (OSD)  (reference Chapter  3);  all  Air  Force  members  (RegAF,  ANG,  and  AFR)  must  complete  occupational surveys. (T-3)  Identified civilians are strongly encouraged to participate. 2.4.3.  Leadership at all levels will ensure selected members of their organizations complete and return surveys accurately and promptly. (T-3) 2.4.4.  Failure  of  personnel  to  complete  and  return  occupational  surveys  negatively  impacts the development of Air Force training programs, WAPS examinations, and the efficient and effective use of personnel and resources. 2.5.  Survey Analyses and Reports.  AETC OAD analysts will: 2.5.1.  Track  survey  returns  to  ensure  a  representative  distribution  of  the  survey  sample  is collected. 2.5.2.  Analyze subsets of the OSD, to include identification of: 2.5.2.1.  Member  groupings  based  on  percent  members  performing  (PMP)  work,  and percent time spent (PTS) performing work; according to the tasks selected by the survey respondents. 2.5.2.2.  Similarities and differences among work identified. 2.5.2.3.  Patterns of career progression by skill level and experience groups. 2.5.2.4.  Distinctions between tasks performed by surveyed home-stationed and deployed members. 6 AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 2.5.2.5.  Distinctions in duties and tasks among MAJCOM groups and components. 2.5.2.6.  Task TE ratings reported by 7- and 9-skill level members. 2.5.2.7.  Task TLD ratings reported by 7- and 9-skill level members. 2.5.2.8.  Background  characteristics  of  skill  level  and  experience  groups,  MAJCOM groups, home-stationed and deployed groups, and other targeted subsets. 2.5.2.9.  Patterns formed by members of identified groups in response to job satisfaction, retention, and work-life balance questions. 2.5.2.10.  Operational relevance of training programs by associating OSD to core training documents, such as CFETPs (CTSs and STSs) and POIs. 2.5.3.  Prepare an occupational analysis report (OAR) documenting: 2.5.3.1.  Survey methodology. 2.5.3.2.  Analysis results. 2.5.3.3.  Implications/Recommendations. 2.6.  Analysis Products.  Provide historical documentation for: 2.6.1.  Air Force personnel or training specialists. 2.6.2.  Outside agency requests. 2.6.3.  Source  references  for  longitudinal  research  and  studies  on  AFSs  and  civilian occupational series. 2.6.4.  A repository of published occupational and special studies. 2.7.  Customers.  AETC  occupational  analysts  will  communicate  the  results  of  occupational studies  through  briefings  which  encompass  discussion  of  the  occupational  analysis  outcomes, and  provide  guidance  with  understanding,  interpreting,  and  application  of  the  data.    Customers include:    Career  field  leadership;  training  managers  and  specialists;  personnel  classification  or research specialists; and personnel responsible for WAPS test development. AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 7 Chapter 3 USES OF OCCUPATIONAL ANALYSIS INFORMATION 3.1.  AFSs.  Personnel  classification  specialists  (AFI  36-2101,  Classifying  Military  Personnel (Officer and Enlisted)) use occupational analysis outcomes to: 3.1.1.  Identify AFS distinctive responsibilities. 3.1.2.  Validate classification documents and guidance. 3.1.3.  Remove  responsibilities  (e.g.,  duties)  from  classification  documents  no  longer accomplished. 3.1.4.  Identify and document new responsibilities. 3.2.  Personnel  Utilization.  AFCFMs  use  occupational  analysis  outcomes  as  an  objective source  in  constructing  and  updating  CFETPs  and  in  making  other  personnel  and  resource utilization  decisions.    AFCFMs  and  MAJCOM  functional  managers  consider  occupational analysis outcomes at Specialty Training Requirements Teams (STRTs), Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TWs), or other AFS planning workshops to: 3.2.1.  Revise occupational or classification structures (e.g., AFECD). 3.2.2.  Revise personnel and resource utilization practices. 3.3.  Air  Force  Training  Programs.  OSD  is  integral  to  the  analysis  and  evaluation  phases  of the  Instructional  Systems  Development  (ISD)  process  (AFMAN  36-2234,  Instructional  System Development, and AFH 36-2235, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems, Volumes 1-13) under the overarching philosophy of continuous process improvement.  It provides training developers the supporting data to develop a concise list of operationally relevant tasks performed and  knowledge  areas  applied  by  an  AFS  or  civilian  occupational  series.    This  data  determines areas  requiring  training,  when  the  training  is  warranted  along  the  training  continuum,  and suggests the optimal training setting.  Analysis results provide factual data used to validate and refine CFETPs (CTSs and STSs) and other training documents; develop new courses, validate or revise  existing courses,  or discontinue unnecessary  training programs  (AFI 36-2201,  Air  Force Training Program and AETCI 36-2641, Technical and Basic Military Training Development). 3.3.1.  AETC  OAD  provides  support  data,  such  as  OARs  and  special  OSD  extracts,  to  the AFCFM,  TPM,  and  TM  prior  to  the  STRT  or  U&TW.    AETC  OAD  analysts  will  present occupational study results at STRTs, U&TWs, or other training planning meetings.  The TM of  a  technical  training  or  flying  training  program  must  review  newly  published  OARs  for implications on current courses. (T-3) 3.3.2.  Training development programs should focus on: 3.3.2.1.  Tasks performed by a large percentage of members. 3.3.2.2.  Tasks with high TE ratings. 3.3.2.3.  Tasks with high TLD ratings. 3.3.2.4.  Duty areas comprised of tasks with high percentage of time spent by members. 8 AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 3.3.3.  For initial skills, AFS-wide training courses, advanced, and specialized courses, focus on  training  tasks  performed  by  substantial  percentages  (30  percent  or  more)  of  relevant criterion groups, such as: 3.3.3.1.  Personnel in their first job or first enlistment. 3.3.3.2.  Personnel at the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill levels. 3.3.3.3.  MAJCOM groups. 3.3.3.4.  Targeted groups. 3.4.  Promotion  Tests  for  the  WAPS.  OSD  provides  a  valuable  and  reliable  measure  for  Air Force  enlisted  promotion  specialty  knowledge  tests  for  the  WAPS.    Test  development  experts and  SMEs  use  occupational  analyses  outcomes  to  aid  in  determining  valid,  data-supported  test items  within  AFS  domains  (AFI  36-2605,  Air  Force  Military  Personnel  Testing  System).    The OSD measure provided to AETC AAD for WAPS test development includes: 3.4.1.  Predicted testing importance ratings (comprised of PMP, PTS, and task factor ratings). 3.4.2.  Performance by pay grade and skill level groups of specific duty areas and tasks. 3.5.  Published  Occupational  Studies  .    To  access  published  occupational  studies  under  the category  of  Unlimited  Distribution,  refer  to  the  following  website:  http://oa.aetc.af.mil/.    To request  access  to  published  occupational  studies  under  the  category  of  Limited  Distribution, email requests to: surveymanager@us.af.mil.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Manpower and Reserve Affairs AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 10 USC § 8013, Secretary of the Air Force AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 22 Dec 2015 AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 Mar 2013 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 Dec 2015 AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 25 Jun 2013 AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 Sep 2010 AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, 24 Sep 2008 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 Nov 1993 AFH 36-2235, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems, Volumes 1-13, 1 Nov 2002 AETCI 36-2641, Technical and Basic Military Training Development, 26 Jun 2014 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AETC OAD—Air Education and Training Command Occupational Analysis Division AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager AFECD—Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory AFH—Air Force Handbook AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFOCD—Air Force Officer Classification Directory AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFS—Air Force Specialty ANG—Air National Guard CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan CTS—Course Training Standard JI—Job Inventory 10 AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 MAJCOM—Major Command OA—Occupational Analysis OAR—Occupational Analysis Report OSD—Occupational Survey Data PMP—Percent Members Performing POI—Plan of Instruction PTS—Percent Time Spent STRT—Specialty Training Requirements Team STS—Specialty Training Standard TE—Training Emphasis TLD—Task Learning Difficulty U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshop WAPS—Weighted Airman Promotion System Terms Job  inventory  (JI)—Product  developed  through  on-site  visits  and  interviews  with  career  field SMEs  and  leaders  at  operational  locations  and  training  centers.    The  JI  is  foundational  for  the development  of  occupational  surveys;  the  JI  consists  of  two  main  areas:    duty  areas  and  tasks performed  or  knowledge  areas  applied;  and  background  information  pertaining  to  members within  an  AFS  or  civilian  occupational  series,  such  as  demographics,  equipment  and  systems used, etc. Occupation—Tasks  and  duties  which  comprise  a  group  of  jobs  which  define  an  occupational entity. Occupational  Analysis—Collecting  and  analyzing  factual  data  on  the  work  performed  by  Air Force  career  fields.    This  data  is  used  to  provide  personnel  and  training  decision-makers  with factual  and  objective  job  information  to  justify  or  change  personnel  utilization  policies  and programs,  refine  occupational  structures,  and  establish,  validate,  or  adjust  training  and  testing programs. Occupational  Analysis  Report  (OAR)—Summary  of  the  processes  and  results  of  an occupational study.  An OAR describes, but not limited to: -(1) Survey methodology and background -(2) Narratives and graphic displays of survey demographics, job structure, skill level analyses, MAJCOM analyses, home-stationed and deployed analyses -(3)  Training  analyses:  identification  of  duty  areas  and  tasks  performed,  and  the  supporting knowledge requirements; and critical OSD correlations to core training documents -(4) Job satisfaction, retention, and work-life balance dimensions -(5) Implications/recommendations.   AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 11 Task Factor Ratings—TE and TLD ratings reported by 7- and 9-skill level members of an AFS; each  AFSC-specific  task  contained  within  the  JI  is  rated  and  this  data  is  collected  through distinct  survey  instruments.    (Note:  for  special  studies,  senior  members  of  the  AFS  or  civilian occupational series report the task factor ratings.)  12 AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 Attachment 2 MEMORANDUM TO REQUEST AN OCCUPATIONAL STUDY MEMORANDUM FOR AETC OAD FROM: (Your three-line address) (Date) SUBJECT:  Request for Occupational Study of Enlisted Air Force Specialty (AFS) XXXXX)  [Special Studies:  SDI ______; RI ______; Officer Air Force Specialty (AFS) _____ or Civilian Occupational Series _____] 1.    Who  should  be  surveyed?    Describe  the  occupational  group  you  want  the  Occupational Analysis  Division  to  survey.    Do  you  need  more  than  one  specialty  surveyed?    Do  you  need officers, civilians, RegAF, ANG, or AFR groups? Provide separate requests for each specialty to be surveyed, unless you want the Occupational Analysis Division to survey multiple populations together. 2.    What  are  the  issues  and  requirements?    Highlight  issues  that  create  the  need  for  an occupational study, such as a major change since the last occupational study.  Cite reports or minutes of meetings that identify or discuss issues.  List the following, if applicable: a.  New equipment or systems and  date of operational deployment b.  Major changes in personnel utilization and  date of changes c.  Major changes in work or management procedures or practices and date of changes d.  Career structure problems in classification, training, or job satisfaction 3.   Date results required.   State the programmed date for your STRT or U&TW.  These dates are  critical  to  scheduling  OAR  completion.    As  a  further  consideration,  when  a  significant change has taken place in classification or training, schedule the occupational review to start no earlier than one year after the date of the change.  This will allow a better snapshot of the effects of the change. 4.  How will you use the data? a.  AFS restructuring, such as creating shreds, mergers, or transformations b.  Changes in management procedures or practices c.  Updating training documents, such as CFETPs (STSs and CTSs), CDCs, and POIs 5.  Where should we visit?   List bases, commands, and locations representative of the variety of jobs the Occupational Analysis Division should visit during development of the job inventory.  AFI36-2623  2 AUGUST 2017 13 Identify  functions  or  bases  critical  to  both  successful  survey  development  and  survey administration. 6.  Whom should we contact?  Include the AFCFMs, MAJCOM functional managers, etc. 7.    How  important  is  this  request?    Help  us  prioritize  your  occupational  study.    Add information  helpful  in  evaluating  the  priority  we  should  assign  this  occupational  study.  EXAMPLE:  If we delay results for a year or leave out a subgroup, such as the ANG, describe the impact on your career field. 8.  Who is the project officer?  Provide the name and phone number of the individual who has the authority to make decisions regarding development and administration of the survey. (Signature Block)  