 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-809   15 APRIL 2015 Personnel CIVILIAN SURVIVOR ASSISTANCE  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1P  Supersedes:   AFI 36-809, 3 Jul 2003 Certified by: AF/A1  (Mr. Robert E. Corsi, Jr.) Pages: 12   This  Instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  36-8,  Employee  Benefits  and Entitlements  and  Work/Life  Programs  and  prescribes  procedures  to  follow  when  a  civilian employee  dies.    This  instruction  explains  the  responsibilities  of  commanders;  supervisors; employees;  Civilian  Personnel  Sections  (CPS);  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC), AFPC/DPIEB  Benefits  and  Entitlements  Service  Team  (BEST)  (AFPC/DPIEB);  casualty assistance  officials;  installation  mortuary  officers;  and  other  staff  officials  responsible  for notifying and assisting an employee’s next of kin (NOK). This instruction applies to appropriated fund civilian employees, Title 5 and Title 10 civilian employees of the Air Force, United States Air  Force  Reserve,  Air  National  Guard,  and  civilian  employees  assigned  to  foreign  overseas areas; civilian employees with transportation agreements assigned to non-foreign overseas areas; civilian employees who die while on duty; and local national employees on temporary duty.  It does not apply to Title 32 Air National -Guard Technicians.  This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level; all supplements need to be approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR  listed above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command.  Requests for waivers are submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,  and disposed of in  accordance with the  Air  Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This Instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of   2  AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015 1974, System of Records Notices (SORN) F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request File, and F036 AF PC Q, Personnel  Data Systems (PDS), apply. Vigilance should be taken to  protect  Privacy Act (PA)  and  Personally  Identifiable  Information  (PII)  when  submitting  or  sending  nominations, applications or other documents to DoD agencies whether by postal methods, faxing or through government  internet  systems.    As  a  minimum,  review  the  following  references  that  contain sensitive or For Official Use Only (FOUO) information: Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3,  Information  Management  and  AFI  33-332,  The  Air  Force  Privacy  And  Civil  Liberties Program. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision of the Instruction updates and clarifies responsibilities for notifying the next of kin (NOK)  when  an  appropriated  fund  civilian  employee  becomes  deceased  (casualty).    The notification  process  is  vested  with  commanders,  supervisors,  the  Air  Force  Personnel  Center (AFPC),  the  Civilian  Personnel  Section  (CPS),  installation  mortuary  officers,  and  other  staff officials  and  requires  coordination  with  the  AFPC  Casualty  Services  Branch  (AFPC/DPFCS). This revision includes procedures for employees to identify and update their emergency contact information using Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS) MyBiz and a description of procedures for reporting a civilian death to the AFPC/DPFCS by the servicing CPS. AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015   3  Chapter 1 OVERVIEW   1.1.  When a civilian death (casualty) occurs during official duty, the Air Force handles next of kin  (NOK)  notification  with  compassion  and  professionalism.  This  instruction  explains  the responsibilities of commanders; supervisors; employees; Civilian Personnel Sections (CPS); Air Force  Personnel  Center (BEST) (AFPC/DPIEB);  casualty  assistance  officials;  installation  mortuary  officers;  and  other  staff officials responsible for notifying and assisting an employee’s next of kin (NOK). (AFPC),  Benefits  and  Entitlements  Service  Team 1.2.  The  survivor  assistance  program  aims  to  reduce  the  trauma  of  the  next  of  kin  (NOK)  by taking  care  of  the  personal  affairs  of  the  deceased  employee.  The  Air  Force  handles  the deceased employee’s personal affairs with thoughtfulness, professionalism and confidentiality. 1.3.  The  Air  Force  will  administer  the  civilian  survivor  assistance  program  without  unlawful discrimination  because  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex  (including  pregnancy),  sexual  orientation, national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, or prior EEO activity.  (T-0)   4  AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015 Chapter 2 RESPONSIBILITIES. 2.1.  Employee’s Commander/Organization Director. 2.1.1.  When  an  employee  dies,  the  unit  commander/organization  director  will  ensure  the supervisor immedidately notifies the CPS and provides the installation commander status on NOK notification. (T-1) 2.1.2.  The commander/organization director will ensure casualty notification to other family members  is  made  in  person  by  an  Air  Force  representative  when  requested  by  a  family member (T-1). The Commander/organization director will work with the casualty assistance representative  (CAR)  located  in  the  Airmen  and  Family  Readiness  Center  (A&FRC),  or  in some  cases  the  Military  Personnel  Section  (MPS),  Force  Support  Squadron  (FSS),  for assistance in assembling a Casualty Notification Team. (T-1) 2.1.3.  The  commander/organization  director  will  ensure  a  field  grade  officer  or  civilian equivalent  (GS-12  and  above)  provides  notification  with  the  assistance  of  the  CPS,  the employee’s supervisor and others. (T-3) 2.1.4.  Once notification is completed, the unit commander/organization director will convey condolences  in  person  or  by  sending  an  official  letter  of  condolence  to  the  NOK  within  5 days of the date of death notification.  The letter should be personal and sympathetic in tone and offer full assistance to the employee’s survivors. (T-3) 2.1.5.  The  commander/organization  director  will  request  assistance  from  the  base  CAR  or AFPC/DPWCS  to  notify  other  family  members  if  deemed  appropriate  or  requested  by  the CPS or NOK. (T-3) 2.2.  Supervisor.  When an employee dies, the supervisor or next supervisory level immediately available will: 2.2.1.  Promptly notify servicing CPS, installation and organizational commander, and, in the overseas areas, installation mortuary officer, when applicable.  Supervisor will assist in NOK notification, if requested. (T-1) 2.2.2.  Certify and send employee’s final Time and Attendance Sheet as soon as possible on first workday after employee's death.  (T-1) 2.2.3.  Secure  employee's  personal  property  from  work  area  for  prompt  inventory  and/or shipment  to  authorized recipient  according to  AFI34-511, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects. (T-1) 2.2.4.  Arrange  for  return  of  government  property  assigned  to  employee  and  for  out-processing of individual through normal CPS and installation procedures. (T-1) 2.2.5.  Prepare  appropriate  worker  compensation  forms  according  to  DoD  1400.25-M, Civilian  Personnel  Manual,  Volume  810,  Injury  Compensation,  with  assistance  from  the CPS  and  ensure  forms  are  filed  with  AFPC/DPIEPC  Injury  Compensation  Unit  when  an employee dies as the result of an  injury  or occupational  illness in  the performance of duty. (T-0) AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015   5  2.2.6.  Notify  in  writing  an  official  of  the  local  union  when  employee  is  covered  by  a recognized bargaining unit, so that union official may express condolences and provide any insurance or other union benefit that may be due to survivors.  (T-1) 2.3.  Civilian Personnel Section (CPS). 2.3.1.  Immediately  upon  notification  of  a  civilian  death,  the  CPS  will  notify  Benefits  and Entitlements Service Team (BEST) via Total Force Service Center to report the death (T-1). The  CPS  provides  BEST  the  deceased  employees’  name,  social  security,  date  and  cause  of death and NOK information (name, phone number and address). 2.3.2.  When  a  civilian  casualty  occurs,  home  installation  CPS  will  coordinate  NOK information  with  employee’s  supervisor  before  providing  the  CAR  the  Emergency  Contact Information from MyBiz. (T-1) 2.3.3.  If NOK are aware of casualty and desire family members to be notified who are not in the immediate area, AFPC/DPFCS will assist in notification, if requested. (T-2) 2.3.4.  If  the  immediate  family  has  not  already  been  contacted,  employee’s  supervisor  will coordinate with CAR, and AFPC/DPFCS, to notify NOK as quickly and compassionately as possible. (T-1) 2.3.5.  If it appears employee’s death  could be the result of a work-related injury or illness, the  CPS  will  promptly  notify  AFPC/DPIEPC  Injury  Compensation  Unit  by  telephone  or  e-mail and describes details of death. (T-1) 2.3.6.  If  requested,  the  CPS  with  assistance  from  AFPC/DPIECC,  will  make  biographical information  from  employee’s  personnel  record  available  for  use  in  a  public  announcement. (T-3)  The CPS will not allow any  public announcement of the identify of a death to made before NOK have been provided initial casualty notification. (T-1) 2.3.7.  If  the  death  occurs  outside  Continental  United  States  (OCONUS),  CPS  will  notify American  Embassy  in  host  nation  (T-1).  The  Benefits  and  Entitlements  Service  Team (BEST)  will  notify  Defense  Civilian  Personnel  Advisory  Service  (DCPAS)  Injury Compensation/  Unemployment  Compensation  Division   E-mail  address: ICUCcontact@cpms.osd.mil . (T-1) (ICUC). 2.3.8.  The  CPS  shall  annually  remind  employees  to  update  their  emergency  contact information via MyBiz, to include designation of beneficiary forms. (T-3) 2.4.  AFPC BEST. 2.4.1.  Once notified of an employee death, AFPC BEST will ensure  a SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action, from the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS) is created and processed. (T-1) 2.4.2.  BEST  will  provide  counseling  to  survivors  and/or  designated  beneficiaries  on potential benefits as soon as possible after death notification has been completed, which may include: (T-1) 2.4.2.1.  Any unpaid pay and allowances.   6  AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015 2.4.2.2.  Death  benefits  under  the  Civil  Service  Retirement  System  (CSRS),  the  Federal Employees'  Retirement  System  (FERS),  the  Thrift  Savings  Plan  (TSP),  and  the  Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Program (FEGLI). 2.4.2.3.  Health benefits coverage under the  Federal  Employee Health Benefits  Program (FEHBP). 2.4.2.4.  Possible eligibility under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) if a work-related injury or illness caused the death. 2.4.2.5.  Availability  of  special  benefits  if  the  death  occurred  because  of  terrorist  or military action. 2.4.2.6.  Provides claim forms to survivors/designated beneficiaries and assists with their completion. 2.4.2.7.  Notifies survivors they may need a minimum of six certified copies of the death certificate which reflects the manner/cause of death within the continental United States  (CONUS)  or  DD  Form  1300,  Report  of  Casualty,  if  the  employee  died  while  in  a temporary duty status or OCONUS. 2.4.2.8.  Advises survivors as to whether they may be entitled to any benefits, to include Social Security Administration, Veterans Administration or military benefits. 2.4.2.9.  Advises  survivors  of  the  flag  recognition  benefit  for  fallen  federal  civilian employees. 2.5.  AFPC Casualty Services Branch (DPFCS). 2.5.1.  When the NOK has no knowledge of the death of the civilian employee and the CPS requests assistance, the base CAR and/or AFPC/DPFCS will assist with the civilian casualty notification process. (T-1) 2.5.2.  AFPC/DPFCS  will  report  the  casualty  in  accordance  with  guidance  provided  in  AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services and this Instruction.  (T-2) 2.6.  Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) 2.6.1.  The  CAR  will  ensure  the  CPS  is  aware  of  the  civilian  casualty  reporting  process  on their installation.(T-1) 2.6.2.  The  CAR  will  receive  civilian  death  worksheet  from  CPS  and  submit  via  DCIPS. Forwards to AFPC/DPFCS for inclusion in AF Casualty Morning Reports. (T-1) 2.6.3.  Provide  Casualty  Assistance  if  the  civilian  employee  was  is  also  a  retired  Air  Force member. (T-1) 2.7.  Employees. 2.7.1.  Employees  will  complete  their  Emergency  Contact  Information  in  MyBiz  at  the earliest  opportunity  and  verify  it  periodically  to  ensure  currency  (T-3).  The  Emergency Contact  Information  in  MyBiz  provides  the  mechanism  for  immediate  access  to  employee emergency information.  MyBiz may be accessed via MyPers website or the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS) Secure Portal. AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015   7  2.7.2.  Employees  are  encouraged  to  provide  their  supervisor  a  printed  copy  of  the emergency information to place in the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.  (The servicing CPS and the employee’s supervisor have view-only capability of the employee’s emergency information.) 2.8.  Installation Mortuary Officer. 2.8.1.  The  installation  mortuary  officer  will  assist  the  NOK  with  mortuary  affairs  benefits when a civilian employee dies  OCONUS or while in a TDY or PCS status. (T-1)   8  AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015 Chapter 3 NEXT OF KIN (NOK) 3.1.  The Air Force identifies the NOK in the following order: 3.1.1.  Spouse or domestic partner. 3.1.2.  Children  acknowledged  by  the  employee  or  so  determined  by  a  court,  including natural, adopted, and stepchildren. 3.1.3.  Parents (unless a court or a statute has granted sole legal custody of the employee to someone else.). 3.1.4.  Persons granted legal custody of the employee by court or statute. 3.1.5.  Siblings, including those gained through adoption. 3.1.6.  Grandparents. 3.1.7.  Other relatives in order of relationship to the employee according to civil laws. 3.2.  If no NOK are available, the Secretary of Air Force may act on behalf of the employee. AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015   9  Chapter 4 WHEN DEATH OCCURS OCONUS OR WHILE TRAVELING ON OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT BUSINESS 4.1.  When  an  employee  dies  on  official  travel  or  on  official  government  business  or  on transportation agreements to OCONUS, including Hawaii and Alaska, the remains are prepared and transported as provided for in AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program and JTR Volume 2, Chapter 7, Part W, paragraph C7065. 4.2.  When  an  employee  stationed  in  OCONUS  dies,  the  travel  and  transportation  of  family members,  household  goods,  and  personal  effects  are  provided  as  specified  in  AFI  34-511, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects and JTR Volume 2, Chapter 5, Part W, paragraph C7085.  The  CPSs  and  AFPC/DPIFSB  will  work  together  to  ensure  timely  completion  of required orders. (T-3)    DANIEL R. SITTERLY, SES, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)   10  AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  Attachment 1 References  DoD 1400.25-V810, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, Injury Compensation,    April 16, 2009 The Joint Travel Regulations, Uniformed Service Members and DOD Civilian Employees, October 1, 2014 AFPD 33-3, Information Management, September 8, 2011  AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, December 24, 2014 AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy And Civil Liberties Program, June 5, 2013 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, September 25, 2013 AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, April 2, 2008 AFI 34-511, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects, June 7, 2011 AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services, February 22, 2010 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 Prescribed Forms There are no forms prescribed by the Instruction. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty Standard Form 50, Notice of Personnel Action  Abbreviations and Acronyms  AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive A&FRC—Airmen and Family Readiness Center BEST—Benefits and Entitlements Service Team CAR—Casualty Assistance Representative CONUS—Continental United States CPS—Civilian Personnel Flight/Civilian Personnel Section CSRS—Civil Service Retirement System AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015   11  DoD—Department of Defense DCPAS—Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System FECA—Federal Employees’ Compensation Act FEGLI—Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance Program FEHB—Federal Employee Health Benefits Program FERS—Federal Employees’ Retirement System ICUC—Injury  Compensation/Unemployment Compensation Division NOK—Next of Kin OCONUS—Outside of the Continental United States SF—Standard Form TSP—Thrift Savings Plan Terms  Beneficiary—  A  person  who  is  entitled  to  receive  certain  benefits  either  by  law  or  by  written designation of the employee. Casualty— An employee who is lost to the organization by virtue of having been declared dead, missing, ill, or injured (per AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services). Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR)— A designated person at an Air Force installation responsible for reporting deaths and assisting NOK survivors. Civilian  Employee—  A  person  employed  by  the  Air  Force  and  paid  from  appropriated  funds who are a US citizen or an alien admitted for permanent residence. Deceased—  A  casualty  status  applicable  to  an  employee  who  is  either  known  to  have  died, determined to have died based on conclusive evidence, or declared dead based on a presumptive finding of death. The recovery of remains is not a prerequisite to declaring a person deceased. Domestic  Partner—  5 C.F.R.  § 875.213  defines  as  a  committed  relationship  between  two adults, of the same sex, in which the partners:— (1) are each other’s sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely; (2)  maintain  a  common  residence,  and  intend  to  continue  to  do  so  (or  would  maintain  a common  residence  but  for  an  assignment  abroad  or  other  employment—related, financial, or similar obstacle); (3) are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to contract; (4) share responsibility for a significant measure of each other’s financial obligations; (5) are not married or joined in a civil union to anyone else; (6) are not the domestic partner of anyone else; (7) are not related in a way that, if they were of opposite sex, would prohibit legal marriage in the U.S. jurisdiction in which the partnership was formed;   12  AFI36-809  15 APRIL 2015 (8) are willing to certify, if required, that they understand that willful falsification of any documentation required to establish that an individual is in a domestic partnership may lead to disciplinary action and the recovery of the cost of benefits received related to such falsification, as well as constitute a criminal violation, and that the method for securing such certification, if required, shall be determined by the AF; and (9) are willing promptly to disclose, if required, any dissolution or material change in the status of the domestic partnership Immediate Family— An employee's spouse or domestic partner, children, parents, and siblings. Installation  Commander—  The  individual  responsible  for  all  operations  performed  by  an installation. MyBiz—  A  sub-program  of  DCPDS  which  contains  employee  maintained  Emergency  Contact Information. Order  of  Precedence—  Benefits  that  are  due  and  payable  are  paid  in  the  order  prescribed  by OPM unless there is a qualifying court order or an assignment of benefits on file. Overseas—    All  locations,  including  Alaska  and  Hawaii,  outside  the  continental  United  States (CONUS).  