BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-301 15 JULY 2015 Certified Current 29 July 2016Communications and Information ADMINISTRATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   SAF/A6SF Supersedes:   AFGM2014-33-02, 18 February 2015 Certified by: SAF/CIO A6 (Teresa M. Salazar, SES) Pages: 12 This  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  33-3, Information Management;  defines Administrative responsibilities, to  include postal  and official mail;  functional  management  and  responsibilities  associated  with  Air  Force  Specialty  Code (AFSC) 3A1X1, Administration. This instruction applies to all Air Force personnel to include active duty military, guard, reserve, civilian,  and  foreign  nationals  employed  by  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force  and  Air  Force contractor  personnel.    This  AFI  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  supplements  that directly implement this publication must be routed to SAF/AAII Policy Branch for coordination prior  to  certification  and  approval.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the compliance statement.   See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for  a description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.     2 AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  Introduction.  Administration  duties  include  a  variety  of  activities  in  direct  support  of organizational  commanders,  directors,  senior  leaders,  Department  of  Defense  (DoD),  joint activities, and Air Force (AF).  Administrative personnel are assigned to AF organizations, at all echelons, to assist with unit management and support. This career field also includes postal and official mail management, which provides efficient, economical transportation of mail, effective operation  of  military  post  offices,  and  sound  management  of  the  official  mail  programs throughout the Air Force. 1.2.  Duties.  Military  and  civilian  Administration  personnel  are  responsible  for  overall organizational management functions.  Duties include (but are not limited to) the following: 1.2.1.  Office  Management.    Includes  processes  and  activities  to  support  organizational communications,  such  as  correspondence  preparation,  distribution,  suspense  tracking, workflow management, electronic mail management, content management and other related duties.    This  also  includes  various  functions  in  support  of  military  and  civilian  leaders, including  calendar  management  and  meeting  support.    Additionally,  Administration personnel  will  ensure  communications  comply  with  standards  for  style  and  format.    Office management  also  includes  duties  related  to  managing  publications  and  forms,  policies,  and processes at the unit level. 1.2.2.  Human Resources.  Includes management of organizational personnel and manpower programs,  such  as  personnel  rosters,  evaluations,  decorations,  supervisory  data,  orders,  in-/out-processing  personnel,  and  manpower  authorization  requests.    Administration  personnel validate accuracy of information in personnel and manpower database systems on behalf of their  organization.    In  addition,  they  coordinate  personnel  actions  between  their  unit  and military personnel organizations. 1.2.3.  Executive  Support.    Includes  executive  support  to  General  Officers  and  Senior Executive Service civilians, to include arranging travel and lodging, coordinating itineraries, and preparing trip folders.  Additionally, these duties include planning, preparing, arranging and  conducting  official  functions.    Administration  personnel  may  also  coordinate  with Protocol  and  assist  with  Distinguished  Visitor  support  and  events,  to  include  managing recognition and special ceremonies, scheduling event locations, coordinating gifts, and guest lists. 1.2.4.  Postal and Official Mail.  Includes postal  financial services, supply, receipt, dispatch functions, and mail delivery services.  Administrative personnel provide security for all mail and  postal  directory  services.    Additionally,  they  prepare  forms  and  reports  as  well  as maintain postal records, supplies, operations plans, and adequate stock of postage and money orders.    These  duties  also  include  operating  the  Official  Mail  Center  by  preparing  and distributing organizational mail. functional 1.3.  Assignments.  Administration  personnel  are  assigned community;  executive  staffs,  postal  organizations,  and  other  support  positions.    Members  of AFSC  3A1X1  are  responsible  for  widely  diverse  tasks  and  often  serve  in  organizations  as  the to  nearly  every AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015   3  only  Administration  person  assigned.    As  such,  supervisors  and  functional  managers  should encourage Administration personnel to deliberately seek out others in their specialty to exchange information.  Job rotations within a given duty assignment, while not always practical, should be exercised when possible to provide a greater diversity of training and experience.   4  AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015 Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Information  Dominance  and  Chief 2.1.  Chief (SAF/CIO A6).  SAF/CIO A6 is responsible for Air Force Administration. Specific responsibilities include the following: Information  Officer 2.1.1.  Formulate  strategy  and  establish  policy  and  guidance  on  the  development  of  all enlisted  and  civilian  personnel  in  the  AFSC  3A1X1  and  the  equivalent  civilian  personnel career  field;  this  includes  managing  professional  development  and  utilization  of  the Administration workforce. 2.1.2.  Provide  sufficient  guidance  and  direction  to  establish  consistent  formats  and  other related standards for administrative communications. 2.1.3.  Serve as the Approval Authority for guidance pertaining to the Air Force Publications and Forms program. 2.1.4.  Maintain  operational  oversight,  inspection,  and  advisory  for  the  Air  Force  postal service;  this  includes  programming,  budgeting,  and  obligating  funds  to  ensure  all transportation and delivery costs accountability. 2.1.5.  Coordinate  postal  contingency  and  war  planning  matters  within  the  Military  Postal Service. 2.2.  Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) for AFSC 3A1X1.  AFCFMs are responsible for  the  overall  management,  training,  and  development  of  Airmen  within  their  specialty.    The AFCFM  for  AFSC  3A1X1  carries  out  the  specific  responsibilities  listed  in  AFI  36-2640, Executing Total Force Development.  In addition, the 3A1X1 AFCFM will work closely with Air Force Plans and Integration (AF/A1X). 2.3.  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  A6.  This paragraph also applies to  the senior cyberspace officer,  enlisted  or  civilian  members  within  all  Direct-Reporting  Units  (DRUs)  and  Field Operating Agencies (FOAs): 2.3.1.  Serve as the overall focal point for administrative support within their MAJCOM (or DRU/FOA). 2.3.2.  Advocate  for  the  assignment,  training,  and  proper  utilization  of  Administration personnel. 2.3.3.  Appoint  a  MAJCOM  3A1X1  Functional  Manager.    This  will  be  identified  as  a Commander’s  Involvement  Program  (CIP)  position  physically  residing  under  the  A6.    If  a position does not currently exist, MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs should plan for and request funding  for  a  dedicated  3A1X1  MAJCOM  Functional  Manager  position.    Until  a  funded position is created, the A6 will selectively appoint an enlisted 3A1X1 SNCO to perform the duties  until  such  time  as  the  formal  position  is  created  and  filled.    This  position  is  a deliberately  developmental  position  and  should  be  filled  with  the  best  qualified  personnel. (T-1). AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015   5  2.4.  MAJCOM 3A1X1 Functional Manager.  This paragraph also applies to the senior 3A1X1 enlisted members within all DRUs and FOAs: 2.4.1.  Serve  as  the  leader  and  manager  of  the  Administration  specialty  within  their MAJCOM (or DRU/FOA). 2.4.2.  Advocate  for  the  assignment,  training,  and  proper  utilization  of  Administration  personnel. 2.4.3.  Distribute  career  field  information  to  all  Wing/Base  Functional  Managers.    Elevate institutional questions and concerns to the 3A1X1 AFCFM. 2.4.4.  Monitor  the  health  and  manning  of  AFSC  3A1X1  within  their  span  of  control; coordinate  with  their  supporting  MAJCOM  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  Directorate (A1) and the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) concerning the prioritization, assignment, and equitable distribution of manpower. 2.5.  81st  Training  Support  Squadron  Qualification  Training  Flight  (81  TRSS/TSQ  (Q-Flight)).  Q-Flight will provide support for AFSC 3A1X1 as outlined in AFI 33-154, Air Force On-The-Job Training Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training. 2.6.  Wing Commander (WG/CC), Installation Host or Equivalent. 2.6.1.  Appoint  a  wing  3A1X1  Functional  Manager.    The  WG/CC,  or  delegate,  will selectively appoint an enlisted 3A1X1 SNCO Wing Functional Manager to manage the base Administration  work force and processes.  This position is a deliberate development position and  should  be  filled  with  the  best  qualified  personnel,  typically  assigned  to  the  Wing Command  Section.  (SNCO  requirement  is  excepted  for  AD  Wings  which  earn  zero  3A1 SNCOs, ANG and AFRC). (T-3). 2.6.2.  Will  implement  and  oversee  administration  policies,  programs,  resources  and procedures within their organization and span of authority. (T-3). 2.6.3.  Will support the proper training, classification, utilization, and career development of all Administration personnel. (T-3). 2.7.  Wing 3A1X1 Functional Manager. 2.7.1.  Advise wing,  group, and squadron commanders on 3A1X1 manning, utilization, and training issues. 2.7.2.  Coordinate  with  other  functional  communities  on  all  matters  related  to  manning, training, and related issues. 2.7.3.  Advocate  for  the  assignment,  training,  and  proper  utilization  of  Administration personnel. 2.7.4.  Ensure  depth  and  breadth  of  career  field  training,  experience,  and  development  by rotating Administration personnel through a variety of jobs, duty positions, activities, and/or organizations as mission allows, after minimum of 18 months in position.  (ANG and AFRC exempt if restricted by manning regulations). 2.7.5.  Distribute  career  field  information  to  all  Administration  personnel.    In  addition, answer questions and elevate concerns to the MAJCOM 3A1X1 Functional Manager. (T-2).   6  AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015 2.7.6.  Utilize  conferences,  training  workshops,  All-Calls,  advisory  groups,  messages, bulletins,  audio  or  video  teleconferencing,  resource  sharing  and  interoperable  systems  to connect administration personnel and foster communication. 2.7.7.  Conduct a 3A1X1 All-Call at least once per quarter. (T-3). 2.7.8.  Work  directly  with  all  tenant  organizations  to  share  training  and  assignment opportunities;  this  includes  establishing  agreements  to  identify  requirements  and  provide support and other resources as needed for commanders. 2.8.  Communications  Squadron  Commander  (CS/CC)  or  Equivalent.  Host  CS/CC  will manage  the  facilities  and  personnel  for  their  base  Official  Mail  Center  (OMC)  in  accordance with  DODM4525.8_AFMAN  33-306,  DoD  Official  Mail  Manual,  Air  Force  Supplement.  Where  military  positions  currently  exist  in  CONUS  OMCs,  the  OMC  will  be  operated  using personnel in AFSC 3A1X1.  Act as liaison with USPS on all installation mail related issues. 2.8.1.  Appoint  an Official  Mail Manager (OMM) for the installation in  writing, and copies will be sent to their next higher command’s OMM. (T-0). 2.8.1.1.  The  OMM  function  is  an  inherently  governmental  function  and  cannot  be contracted  out.    OMMs  are  responsible  for  managing  official  mail  operations  including compliance  with  the  “Private  Express  Statutes;”  inspections;  acquisition,  use  and disposition  of  supplies;  budgeting  and  expenditure  oversight  of  appropriated  funds;  and property management. 2.8.1.2.    Only  3A1X1  personnel  E-6  or  higher  or  DoD  civilian  equivalent  (GS-6  or higher)  will  be  appointed  as  OMMs.    Exceptions  to  this  rank  requirement  may  be approved and documented in writing.  This requirement is waived only when the activity concerned has no personnel in the grades specified.  The requirement to appoint OMMs in  the  grade  of  E-6/GS-6  or  higher,  does  not  apply  to  Activity  Distribution  Offices (ADO). 2.8.2.  Identify  or  establish  a  Wing  Publications  and  Forms  Management  Office  to  execute Publications  and  Forms  Management  responsibilities  outlined  in  AFI  33-360,  Publications and Forms Management. 2.9.  Commanders,  Directors,  and  Supervisors.  Air  Force  leaders  having  responsibility  for Administration personnel will: 2.9.1.  Ensure Administrative personnel are aware of the policies within this instruction.  (T-1). 2.9.2.  Identify  and  document  position  descriptions  and  other  core  documents  to  clearly establish  work  standards  and  other  Administration  requirements  within  their  organization. (T-1). 2.9.3.  Appropriately  place  and  utilize  Administration  personnel  and  ensure  personnel  are qualified in their assigned jobs and capable of meeting mission requirements. (T-3). 2.9.4.  Ensure  the  responsibilities  of  Administrative  personnel  are  commensurate  with  their grade  and  size  of  their  staff.    Furthermore,  will  ensure  duties  are  properly  distributed according to established applicable Air Force Manpower Standards 10S100 and 10G100. (T-1). AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015   7  2.9.5.  Identify  training  requirements,  conduct  on-the-job  training,  and  evaluate  training results.    Support  the  temporary  release  of  Administration  personnel  to  participate  in  base-level training and other developmental opportunities. (T-3). 2.9.6.  Support Wing 3A1X1 FM rotation plan for Administration personnel assigned. (T-3). 2.9.7.  Recognize superior performance and nominate Administration personnel for quarterly and annual awards, within and external to their organization, as appropriate. (T-3). 2.10.  Administration  Personnel.  Members  of  AFSC  3A1X1,  including  both  military  and civilians will: 2.10.1.  Perform  duties  and  fulfill  responsibilities  associated  with  this  instruction  and  IAW program relevant guidance. 2.10.2.  Actively participate with the base and organizational Administration community, to include requesting and offering assistance, training, and other group activities.   8  AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015 Chapter 3 POSTAL SUPPORT 3.1.  Overview.  The DoD and the United States Postal Service (USPS) Agreement in USPS Pub 38,  Postal  Agreement  with  the  Department  of  Defense,  establishes  the  Military  Postal  Service (MPS)  as  an  extension  of  the  USPS  abroad.    Section  406  of  Title  39  United  States  Code, provides  the  legal  authority  to  maintain  and  operate  military  post  offices  in  support  of  Armed Forces  operations  and  personnel  at  locations  outside  the  United  States,  or  inside  the  United States  where  the  military  installation  requires  postal  support.    MAJCOMs  will  seek  both  the affected  COCOM(s)  and  SAF/CIO  A6  approval  before  closing  an  operating  location  whose primary postal mission is the oversight of mail transportation.  SAF/CIO A6 frequently assesses worldwide postal  networks and must determine how the loss of any hub, Aerial  Mail Terminal (AMT),  or  Mail  Control  Activity  (MCA)  will  affect  the  DoD  mail  transportation  network overall. 3.2.  Organization.  The Air Force standard for postal organizational overseas structure is shown in  Figure  3.1.    MAJCOMs  will  structure  their  Postal  organizations  in  accordance  with  this structure. Any variations must be approved by SAF/CIO A6. Figure 3.1.  Air Force Postal Organizational Structure.  AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015   9  3.1.1.  MAJCOM Air Postal Squadrons (AIRPS).  AIRPS are established overseas under A6 Command  and  Control  primarily  to  operate  and  manage  theater-wide  mail  transportation functions.    They  manage  these  functions  through  Aerial  Mail  Terminals  (AMT)  and  Mail Control  Activities (MCA) at  mail  receipt, consolidation, and transfer points as necessary to ensure  continuous  and  cost  effective  movement  of  mail  to  theater  Air  Force  Post  Offices (APO).   In addition, AIRPS may operate APOs at  geographically separated units or remote locations (not on an Air Force installation).  There are special situations, by mutual consent of  the  MAJCOM,  Wing,  and  SAF/CIO  A6,  that  AIRPS  may  staff,  operate,  and  manage APOs on installations. 3.2.1.1.  AIRPS provides training, inspection, operational planning, policy oversight, and direct liaison with the Military Postal Service Agency and other federal agencies for all Air  Force  postal  operations  within  a  theater  and  will  meet  DoD  and  USPS  mandated annual  inspections  as  directed  by  JP1-0,  Doctrine  for  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United States and DoD 4525.6-M, DoD Postal Manual. 3.2.1.2.  Contingency and Mobility Operations.  AIRPS provides support for contingency and  mobility  operations.    APO  and  AMT  operations  maintain  C-Kits  containing  postal materials  and  supplies  to  support  postal  operations  downrange.    The  6KDAX  and 6KDBX  Unit  Type  Codes  (UTC)  are  used  to  provide  postal  support  to  contingency operations.    Typically,  combatant  commanders  designate  how  postal  resources  are postured  within  a  contingency  environment.    If  no  specific  designation  is  provided, guidance in this instruction will be used. 3.2.2.  Postal  Detachments.    Postal  Detachments  are  assigned  to  countries  where  an  AIRPS has  assets  and  functional  requirements.    Those  assets  normally  report  to  the  Postal Detachment  who  in-turn,  report  to  the  AIRPS.    MAJCOMs  may  determine  that  a  Postal Detachment is not required and assets may report directly to the AIRPS. 3.2.3.  Aerial Mail Terminal (AMT).  AMTs receive, sort, consolidate, and re-dispatch mail to  APOs  via  a  global  mail  network  coordinated  through  the  USPS.    Mail  may  be  received from commercial or military aircraft, surface container, truck, and/or APO. 3.2.4.  Mail  Control  Activity  (MCA).    MCAs  oversee  airport  flight  line  and  warehouse operations  on  military  and  commercial  airports.    They  construct  country-specific  flight schedules,  manifest  mail,  safeguard  mail,  report  mail  loading/handling  irregularities,  and provide liaison with commercial airline or Air Mobility Command representatives to ensure continuous  and  cost  effective  mail  movement.    MCAs  are  often  the  singular,  most  critical point  in  the  network  to  identify  mail  delays,  improper  handling,  security,  damage,  or  cost inefficiencies. 3.2.5.  Air Force Post Office (APO).  APOs provide retail postal services nearly identical to that  of  a  Post  Office  in  the  Continental  United  States  (CONUS).    (Exempt  for  ANG  and AFRC except when serving in deployed locations). 3.2.6.  Postal  Service  Center  (PSC).    PSC  delivers  personal  mail  to  authorized  installation members. 3.2.7.  Official  Mail  Center  (OMC).    OMCs  will  provide  postal  services  for  official  units assigned  to  a  location.    OMC  is  also  responsible  for  metering,  postage,  consolation, distribution, and tracking administrative communications and packages.   10  AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015 3.3.  Key Postal Positions. 3.3.1.  Special  Experience  Identifier  (SEI)  984.    Postal  positions  which  involve  extensive responsibilities and expertise are coded using SEI 984, Prior Postal Experience and Training. 3.3.1.1.  Personnel  assigned  to  SEI  984-coded  positions  are  required  to  complete  their tour  in  this  position  and  are  therefore  not  expected  to  rotate  to  other  Administration positions during the same assignment and DLOC. 3.3.1.2.  All  3A1X1  personnel  may  apply  for  SEI  984  coded  positions;  however, members who are selected for these positions and do not already hold the SEI 984 code will be scheduled to attend the Basic Postal Operations Course at the Interservice Postal Training Activity, Fort Jackson, South Carolina. 3.3.1.3.  All  3A1X1  personnel  will  be  coded  with  SEI  984  upon  their  completion  of formal postal training and after they obtain at least 6 months of postal experience. 3.3.2.  Certain  positions  require  extensive  postal  training  and  experience.    These  include assignments  in  Joint  and  headquarters  activities  as  well  as  leadership  positions  such  as Detachment  Chiefs,  Operating  Location  Chiefs,  Postal  Superintendents,  and  Postmaster.  These  positions  are  identified  using  SEI  984  but  are  filled  through  EQUAL-Plus  in  the Assignment  Management  System.    Only  3A1X1  personnel  with  extensive  postal  expertise should apply for these positions. 3.4.  Training.  Formal  postal  training  is  provided  by  the  Interservice  Postal  Training  Activity for  personnel  filling  key  postal  positions.    However,  personnel  assigned  to  all  postal  positions must  complete  applicable  on-the-job  training.    Air  Force  Job  Qualification  Standard  and  Air Force Qualification Training Packages are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel  in  upgrade  or  qualification  training.    They  are  located  on  the  81st  TRSS  Q-Flight website.  https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/default.aspx.  WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lt Gen, USAF Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015   11  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 4525.7, Military Postal Service and Related Services, 2 April 1981 DoDI 4525.08_AFI33-365, IC1, DoD Official Mail Management, 2 January 2013 DoDM 4525.8_AFMAN33-306, IC1, DoD Official Mail Manual, 29 January 2007 DoDM 4525.6, DoD Postal Manual, 15 August 2002 DoDD 5101.11, DoD Executive Agent for the Military Postal Service (MPS), 2 June 2011 DoDI 7750.7, DoD Forms Management Program, 20 April 2007 DoDM 7750.7, IC1, DoD Forms Management Program Procedures Manual, 14 August 2014 AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011 AFI 33-154, Air Force On-The-Job Training Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training, 1 May 2013 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004 AFMAN 33-361, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 21 March 2014 Joint Pub 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 25 March 2013 USPS Pub 38, Postal Agreement with the Department of Defense, 21 February 1980 Prescribed Forms There are no prescribed forms. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ADO—Activity Distribution Office AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager AFI—Air Force Instruction AFJQS—Air Force Job Qualification Standard AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMS—Air Force Manpower Standard AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFQTP—Air Force Qualification Training Package AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code   12  AFI33-301  15 JULY 2015 AIRPS—Air Postal Squadron AMT—Aerial Mail Terminal APO—Air Force Post Office CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan CIO—Chief Information Officer CIP—Commander’s Involvement Program CSS—Commander Support Staff DoD—Department of Defense DRU—Direct Reporting Unit DV—Distinguished Visitor FOA—Field Operating Agency MAJCOM—Major Command MCA—Mail Control Activity MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager MPS—Military Postal Service OMC—Official Mail Center OMM—Official Mail Manager OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PSC—Postal Service Center SEI—Special Experience Identifier USPS—United States Postal Service UTC—Unit Type Code  