BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-104     17 OCTOBER 2014   Certified Current 18 June 2015 Medical Command HEALTH PROMOTION NUTRITION COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   AFMSA/SG3P Supersedes:   AFI40-104, 4 October 2011 Certified by: AF/SG3/5 (Maj Gen Dorothy A. Hogg) Pages: 14 This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  40-1,  Health  Promotion.  It establishes policies governing Health Promotion Nutrition to promote Airmen health, fitness, mission  readiness,  and  work  productivity.    This  publication  applies  to  all  military  and  civilian Air  Force  (AF)  personnel,  including  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC)  units  and  the  Air National Guard (ANG).  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.    This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.   The authorities to waiver wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include:  identifies  Tiered  waiver  authorities  for  unit  level  compliance  items;  requires  the installation  commander  to  establish  the  Nutritional  Environment  Working  Group  to  address   2  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 opportunities to improve the installation nutritional environment (Active Component only); and establishes Air Force dietary supplement policy in the areas of education, high-risk supplements, and provider training. AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014   3  Chapter 1 PROGRAM OVERVIEW 1.1.  Overview.  Health  Promotion  Nutrition  is  the  science  and  art  of  helping  people  change nutrition patterns to move toward a state of optimal health.  The process includes the assessment, planning,  implementation,  monitoring,  and  evaluation  of  comprehensive  strategies  that  target populations and groups.  Nutrition can be improved through a combination of efforts to enhance awareness,  change  behavior,  and  create  environments sustain  healthy  eating practices.  Providing supportive environments has the greatest impact to produce lasting change. to 1.2.  Purpose.  Health Promotion Nutrition supports the commander in cultivating a fit and ready force that is resilient, productive, effective, and healthy.  Health Promotion Nutrition emphasizes changing  and  structuring  the  nutritional  environment  to  facilitate  and  promote  healthy  food choices. 1.3.  Scope.  Health  Promotion  Nutrition  strategies  should  consider  all  levels  of  the  Social-Ecological  Model.    Health  status  is  dependent  upon  the  collective  behaviors,  attitudes, knowledge,  and  beliefs  of  family  and  community.  Delivery  of  programs  and  services  are provided  in  locations  where  target  populations  live,  work,  and  play  with  emphasis  on  high population reach programs and strategies.   4  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 Chapter 2 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG). 2.1.1.  Oversees Air Force nutrition and dietary supplements policy. 2.1.2.  Ensures  adequate  programming,  budget,  training,  and  research  to  support  nutritional fitness and dietary supplement safety for Airmen. 2.1.3.  Advocates  for  comprehensive  and  evidence-based  strategies  to  create  a  culture  and environment supportive of nutritional fitness. 2.1.4.  Collaborates and coordinates nutrition policy with US Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). 2.2.  Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). 2.2.1.  Supports AF/SG in developing Air Force nutrition and dietary supplements policy. 2.2.2.  Provides  policy  and  guidance  for  integrating  and  vetting  new/emerging  institutional education  and  training  requirements  or  learning  outcomes  into  accessions,  Professional Military Education (PME), Professional Continuing Education (PCE) and ancillary training.. 2.2.3.  Monitors Air Force Personnel Center Services, Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES),  and  Defense  Commissary  Agency  (DeCA)  sales  of  dietary  supplements  and coordinates with AF/SG. 2.2.4.  Develops  policy  on  the  availability  and  sales  of  supplements  to  support  the  safety, to health  and  performance  of  Airmen include  compliance  with  Food  and  Drug Administration (FDA) warnings and recalls. 2.2.5.  Ensures  dietary  supplement  standard  warnings  and  disclaimers  are  prominently displayed to include special provisions for flyers and Personnel Reliability Program (PRP). 2.2.6.  Ensures,  pursuant  to  applicable  agreements  and  DoD  Directives/Instructions,  that AAFES operations on Air Force installations: 2.2.6.1.  Support  an  environment  that  places  priority  on  warfighters’  nutritional  fitness, performance and health. 2.2.6.2.  Use effective marketing strategies to promote the purchase of healthy foods and beverages. 2.2.6.3.  Provide dietary supplement sales information to AF/A1. 2.2.6.4.  Comply with  FDA warnings and  recalls. Ensure standard supplement warnings and  disclaimers  are  prominently  displayed  to  include  special  provisions  for  flyers, Personnel  Reliability  Program  (PRP),  and  other  military  populations  with  guidance restrictions on supplement use when notified by the appropriate authority. 2.2.6.5.  Make  healthy  foods  available,  convenient,  reasonably  priced,  appetizing,  and flavorful to consumers of AAFES food, beverage, and vending operations. AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014   5  2.3.  Air Force Medical Support Agency, Health Promotion (AFMSA/SG3P). 2.3.1.  Develops  policy,  systems,  and  environmental  interventions  to  support  nutritional fitness and dietary supplement safety. 2.4.  Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA). 2.4.1.  Biomedical Sciences Corps Operations (SGB) 2.4.1.1.  Coordinates  with  AFMOA  Health  Promotion  and  AF/SG  Dietetics  Consultant on nutritional guidance and programs. 2.4.2.  Health Promotion Operations (SGPZ) 2.4.2.1.  Develops,  implements  and  evaluates  interventions  that  promote  nutritional fitness and dietary supplement safety. 2.4.2.2.  Advances the capabilities of the Air Force Medical Service to provide nutrition education  to  Military  Treatment  Facility  (MTF)  beneficiaries,  particularly  at  MTFs without medical nutrition therapy services. 2.4.2.3.  Partners  with  Air  Force  Personnel  Center,  Services  and  other  stakeholders  to operationalize standardized tools to assess the eating environment, identify opportunities for  improvement,  and  implement  and  evaluate  targeted  interventions  to  promote  the purchase and consumption of healthy foods. 2.4.2.4.  Ensures dietitian serves as AF HP Nutrition Consultant and is the consultant to Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  dietitians  on  community  nutrition  and  population-based nutrition approaches as appropriate. 2.5.  AF/SG Dietetics Consultant. 2.5.1.  Advises AF/SG on nutrition policy. 2.5.2.  Coordinates  with  AFMOA  Health  Promotion  and  AFMOA/SGB  on  nutritional guidance and programs. 2.6.  Air Force Personnel Center, Services. 2.6.1.  Partners with Air Force Health Promotion to promote availability and consumption of healthy  food  options  on  Air  Force  installations;  annual  assessment  of  the  installation nutritional environment; and training of food service personnel in healthy menu planning and food preparation. 2.6.2.  Ensures  Air  Force  dining  facilities  label  food  items  IAW  the  Go  For  Green  criteria (see Attachment 2). 2.6.3.  Provides  food  service  personnel  with  knowledge,  skills  and  training  necessary  for menu  planning  and  food  preparation  that  will  maximize  the  nutritional  value  of  foods  and promote healthy food purchase and consumption. 2.6.4.  Monitors  the  sale  of  dietary  supplements  and  nutritional  products  in  AF  Services facilities. 2.6.5.  Implements policy on the availability and sales of supplements to support the safety, health  and  performance  of  Airmen include  compliance  with  Food  and  Drug Administration (FDA) warnings and recalls in AF Services facilities. to   6  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 2.6.6.  Implements  dietary  supplement  standard  warnings  and  disclaimers  are  prominently displayed, to include special provisions for flyers and Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), in AF Services facilities. 2.7.  MAJCOM or MAJCOM-Designated Dietitian Consultants. 2.7.1.  Coordinates  with  AFMOA/SGPZ  on  implementation  of  HP  nutrition  strategies  and interventions/initiatives  and  orientation,  training,  and  mentorship  of  HP  Registered Dietitians. 2.7.2.  Advises  the  command  and  appropriate  higher  headquarters  staff  on  nutrition  issues, and provides guidance and nutrition consultation to bases and MTFs. 2.7.3.  Serves as clinical supervisor for HP Registered Dietitians to include the credentialing process and diet certification. 2.7.4.  Ensures  that  the  peer  review  process  for  HP  Registered  Dietitians  complies  with AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine. 2.8.  Wing Commander (or equivalent). 2.8.1.  Supports  an  environment  that  supports  installation  personnel  to  make  food  choices that improve health, performance and well-being. (T-2) 2.8.2.  Appoints  a  cross-functional  Nutritional  Environment  Working  Group Paragraph 3.2.1.  (NOTE: Active Component only.  Does not apply to ARC) (T-2) IAW 2.8.3.  Communicates  informed,  responsible,  and  safe  use  of  dietary  supplements  at  least annually IAW Paragraph 4.1.1 (T-3) 2.8.4.  Appoints  a  cross-functional  Operation  Supplement  Safety  (OPSS)  Working  Group IAW Paragraph 4.1.2   (NOTE: Active Component only.  Does not apply to ARC) (T-3) 2.9.  Unit Commander and Supervisor. 2.9.1.  Supports a work environment that promotes access to healthy foods. (T-3) 2.10.  Force Support Squadron Commander/Director (FSS/CC). 2.10.1.  Promotes  healthy  food  purchase  and  consumption,  including  food  service  and vending contracts.   (T-1) 2.10.2.  Supports  assessment  of  the  nutritional  environment,  and  implements  and  evaluates interventions to promote the availability, purchase and consumption of healthy foods.  (T-1) 2.10.3.  Monitors  the  sale  of  dietary  supplements  and  nutritional  products  in  Services facilities. (T-1) 2.10.4.  Implements policy on the availability and sales of supplements to support the safety, health  and  performance  of  Airmen include  compliance  with  Food  and  Drug Administration (FDA) warnings and recalls. (T-1) to 2.10.5.  Ensures  dietary  supplement  standard  warnings  and  disclaimers  are  prominently displayed  to  include  special  provisions  for  flyers  and  Personnel  Reliability  Program  (PRP). (T-1) AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014   7  2.10.6.  Coordinates with Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC) on evaluating efficacy and health risks of dietary supplements being sold in AF Services facilities. (T-3) 2.10.7.  Ensures  dietary  supplements  and  other  nutritional  products  sold  by  individuals  on base  are  IAW  AFI  36-2925,  Personal  Commercial  Solicitation  on  Air  Force  Installations. (T-1) 2.11.  Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC). 2.11.1.  Advocates  for  comprehensive,  evidence-based  strategies  to  create  a  culture  and environment supportive of nutritional fitness.  (T-3) 2.11.2.  Provides  adequate  programming,  budgeting,  training,  and  resourcing  to  achieve  HP Nutritional  Fitness  goals  and  objectives  resulting  in  improved  Airman  performance  and health.   (T-3) 2.11.3.  In  collaboration  with  the  MAJCOM  Consultant  Dietitian  and  AFMOA/SGPZ, provides options to ensure that all patients have access to nutrition education when the MTF does not have Nutritional Medicine (NM) operations IAW AFMAN 44-144.   (T-3) 2.11.4.  Coordinates with NM and/or HP to provide guidance to FSS/CC on the health risks, efficacy and sale of dietary supplements in Services facilities.  (T-3) 2.12.  Food Facility Managers. 2.12.1.  Ensures  food  is  labeled  IAW  the  Go  For  Green  criteria  (Attachment  2)  in  military dining facilities.  (T-0) 2.12.2.  Ensures  food  service  personnel  have  knowledge,  skills  and  training  necessary  for menu  planning  and  food  preparation  that  will  maximize  the  nutritional  value  of  foods  and promote healthy food purchase and consumption.  (T-3) 2.12.3.  Supports  assessment  of  the  nutritional  environment,  and  implements  and  evaluates interventions to promote the availability, purchase and consumption of healthy foods. (T-3) 2.13.  Installation Health Promotion Team.  (NOTE: For stand-alone AFRC installations only, Exercise Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager is responsible for the installation's Reservist HP Nutrition  program,  which  is  not  subject  to  the  requirements  set  forth  in  this  AFI.  Exercise Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager implements Reservist HP Nutrition program to the extent that resources and capabilities are available.) (T-3) 2.13.1.  Informs  commanders  at  least  annually  (e.g.  briefing,  written  report,  e-mail)  on  the nutritional and weight status of their units, as well as strategies to improve health and mission productivity.  (T-3) 2.13.2.  Coordinates an annual assessment of the installation nutritional environment through the installation Nutritional Environment Working Group; identifies opportunities to improve healthy  eating  options;  and  implements  and  evaluates  interventions  to  promote  the availability,  marketing,  purchase  and  consumption  of  healthy  foods,  in  partnership  with installation food service establishments.  (T-1)   8  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 Chapter 3 NUTRITION 3.1.  Go For Green. 3.1.1.  All food in military dining facilities shall be categorized and displayed in accordance with Go For Green criteria (Attachment 2) and IAW AFI 44-141/BUMEDINST 10110.6/AR 40-25, Nutrition and Menu Standards for Human Performance. (T-0) 3.2.  Nutritional  Environment  Assessment  (NOTE:  Active  Component  only.    Does  not apply to ARC) 3.2.1.  The installation commander shall appoint a cross-functional Nutritional Environment Working Group coordinated by a dietitian or health promotion coordinator. Membership may include: dietitian, health promotion coordinator, the Appropriated Fund (APF) dining facility, exchange,  commissary,  Non-Appropriated  Fund  [NAF]  food  facilities,  lodging,  fitness center,  and  any  other  installation  stakeholders  interested  in  promoting  a  healthy  nutritional environment. (T-2) 3.2.2.  The  Nutritional  Environment  Working  Group  shall  conduct  an  annual  assessment  of the installation nutritional environment, develop an annual healthy food improvement action plan, and brief installation leadership at least annually. (T-2) AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014   9  Chapter 4 DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS 4.1.  Operation Supplement Safety (OPSS). 4.1.1.  OPSS is  the  DoD  initiative to  educate  healthcare  providers  and  Service  members  on dietary  supplement  safety,  including  energy  drinks.  The  installation  commander  shall communicate  informed,  responsible,  and  safe  use  of  dietary  supplements  at  least  annually. (T-3) is  not  subject  to  the  requirements  set  forth 4.1.2.  (NOTE:  For  stand-alone  AFRC  installations  only,  Exercise  Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager is responsible for the installation's Reservist HP Nutrition program, which   Exercise Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager implements Operation Supplement Safety to the extent  that  resources  and  capabilities  are  available.)  The  installation  commander  shall appoint a cross-functional OPSS Working Group chaired by a dietitian or health promotion coordinator.  The  OPSS  Working  Group  will  communicate  consistent,  coordinated,  and widespread messages on dietary supplement safety.  Membership may include dietitian, diet technician,  flight  surgeon,  other  primary  care  health  providers,  aerospace  physiologist, exercise physiologist, health educator, fitness center staff, safety, public affairs, drug demand reduction  staff,  and  any  other  installation  stakeholder  committed  to  dietary  supplement safety. The OPSS Working Group shall brief installation leadership at least annually. (T-3) in  this  AFI. 4.2.  Use of Dietary Supplements. 4.2.1.  Dietary supplement use, as defined by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA), shall generally be permitted.  Aircrew is required to gain approval for dietary supplement  use  by  the  flight  surgeon  IAW  AFI  48-123,  Medical  Examinations  and Standards.  (T-1) 4.2.2.  Airmen  are  discouraged  from  using  high-risk  dietary  supplements  with  unacceptable benefit-to-risk  ratio,  as  defined  by  Air  Force  Medical  Support  Agency  (AFMSA/SG3P).  Consult the Health Promotion Nutrition Guide for current guidance. 4.2.3.  The  absence  of  a  dietary  supplement  on  the  high-risk  list  does  not  imply  Air  Force endorsement of the dietary supplement.  Dietary supplements may contain substances that are prohibited. 4.3.  Healthcare Provider Training. 4.3.1.  Healthcare providers shall be trained at least annually on the need to obtain a thorough history of dietary supplement use, to include herbal preparations, multivitamin, mineral, and other dietary supplements in the form of gels, pills, powders, and shakes.  The history will be documented in the patient’s medical record.  (T-3)   10  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 4.3.2.  Healthcare  providers  shall  be  trained  at  least  annually  on  the  need  to  report  any adverse event that they believe may be associated with dietary supplements. Adverse events shall be reported through Air Force Medical Operations Agency.  (T- 3)  THOMAS W. TRAVIS Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS Surgeon General AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014   11  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 6130.05, DoD Nutrition Committee, 18 February 2011 AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion, 17 December 2009  AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,25 September 2013  AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 17 April 2014 AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 21 October 2013 AFI 36-2925, Personal Commercial Solicitation on Air Force Installations, 28 August 2013 AFI 40-101, Health Promotion, 17 December 2009 AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 Jan 2012 AFI 44-141_IP (AR 40-25/BUMEDINST 10110.6), Nutrition Standards and Education, 15 June 2001 AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 5 November 2013 AFI 90-501, Community Action Information Board and Integrated Delivery System, 15 October 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine, 29 June 2011 USDA Dietary Guidelines for Americans, http://www.cnpp.usda.gov/dietaryguidelines.htm USDA MyPlate, http://www.choosemyplate.gov Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service AF/A1—US Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operation Agency AFMOA/SGHC—Air Force Medical Operation Agency, Health Promotion Operations AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency   12  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 AFMSA/SG3O—Air Force Medical Support Agency, Health Promotion AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AF/SG—US Air Force Surgeon General ARC—Air Reserve Component CAIB—Community Action Information Board DeCA—Defense Commissary Agency FSS—Force Support Squadron FSS/CC—Force Support Squadron Commander/Director HP—Health Promotion HPP—Health Promotion Program HPSO—AF Health Promotion Support Office IDS—Integrated Delivery System MDG—Medical Group MNT—Medical Nutrition Therapy MTF—Military Treatment Facility NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund NM—Nutritional Medicine PHWG—Population Health Working Group RD—Registered Dietitian USDA—US Department of Agriculture  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014   13  Attachment 2 GO FOR GREEN CRITERIA Table A2.1.  Go for Green Criteria. Tips to build a healthy plate Vegetables • Eat  3–4 cups non-starchy vegetables a day. • Starchy vegetables such as potatoes  and corn are in the Grains/Starches group. Eat Often (Almost anytime) Eat Occasionally (Select portions carefully) Eat Rarely (Once in a while) Fresh or frozen vegetables Canned vegetables rinsed to remove salt (green beans, beets) No-added-salt canned  vegetables (tomato) Leafy green salads with dark greens (spinach, spring mix) and vegetable toppings Fresh or frozen vegetables with light sauces Canned vegetables Fried or tempura  vegetables Vegetables with high-fat sauces (Al- fredo) Creamed vegetables Some salads; see salad dressings and toppings  under Fats/Oils Fruits • Eat 2–2.5 cups of fruit a day. • Eat your  fruit, don’t drink it. Fresh fruit Frozen  fruits (all types) with no added sugar/syrup Fruit canned  in water or fruit juice Dried fruit (un-sulfured  with no added sugar) Frozen fruit with added sugar/syrups Canned fruit in light syrup Dried fruit (sulfured) 100% fruit juice Some fruit desserts Dried fruit with coatings (yogurt, choco- late, others) Dried fruit with added  sugar (Craisins) Canned fruit in heavy syrup Some fruit desserts Grains/Starches • Choose 100% whole grain for at least half of all grain servings. Brown rice, bulgur, quinoa, barley Oatmeal Baked potato/sweet potato with skin Baked sweet-potato  “fries” Whole-grain pasta Cereal with less than 10g sugar and at least 3g fiber Whole-grain breads, bagels, rolls, Eng- lish muffins with 3g or more fiber White rice, couscous, pasta Cereals with more than 10g sugar Sweetened oatmeal/oatmeal  packets Grits, polenta Baked French  fries Mashed potatoes (no butter  or cream) White breads, bagels, rolls, cornbread Protein • Vary  your protein  choices. Include  seafood/fish  twice a week. •  Include beans  for  protein and fiber. Egg whites/egg  substitutes Fish and shellfish (baked, broiled, grilled) Most fish canned  in water (except tuna) Chicken/turkey (without skin) Ground poultry (90% lean) Beans/lentils Tofu or edamame Vegetable or bean  burgers/patties (black-bean burgers) Whole eggs  Tuna canned in water Chicken/turkey with skin Pork, ham, Canadian bacon  Deli meats Chicken/turkey sausage Beans/lentils with added  sugar, fat, ham, bacon Soy patties, links, burgers Biscuits, croissants, full-fat muffins Doughnuts, Danishes, pastries, sweetened breads Processed cereals with sugar Fried rice Pasta with cream sauce French  fries (fried in oil) Mashed potatoes  (butter and/or whole milk/cream), potato  casseroles Grits with added  fat Fried meat/poultry/fish/seafood  Fried eggs prepared  with fat/oil Ground beef, fatty (marbled) cuts of red meat, beef ribs, and corned beef, pork sausage or bacon Hot dogs, kielbasa, bratwurst High-fat deli meats (salami, bologna) Refried (with lard) beans Fats/Oils • Choose healthy fats and oils. Oils – olive, canola, safflower, sunflower, sesame, grapeseed Salad dressings made  with these  oils Nuts and seeds, unsalted  Natural nut butters (peanut  butter, almond, hazelnut, soynut) Oils – vegetable, soy, corn, peanut Salad dressings made  with these oils Mayonnaise made  with these oils Gravy (made with water or low-fat milk) Margarine spreads with no trans fats Peanut butter with added  oils/fats Oils – coconut, palm, palm kernel Shortening and lard Gravy (made with fat drippings) Most margarines Full-fat creamy salad dressings Cream (half-and-half, whipped, others) Non-dairy creamer (liquid or powdered)   14  AFI40-104  17 OCTOBER 2014 Tips to build a healthy plate Beverages • Choose water instead of sugary beverages. Eat Often (Almost anytime) Eat Occasionally (Select portions carefully) Eat Rarely (Once in a while) Water (plain or carbonated)  Flavored seltzers/waters with no artificial sweetener  Decaf tea and decaf coffee, plain Herbal tea Low-sodium, 100% vegetable juice Non-fat/skim/1% milk Sports drinks 100% fruit juice 2% (low-fat) milk Tea and coffee, plain or no more than 2 tsp sugar and 1 tbsp cream Artificially sweetened  beverages of any kind (diet sodas, diet teas, many flavored waters) Coffee and tea with more than 2 tbsp cream and/or  4 tsp sugar Sweetened  beverages of any kind (sodas, sweet teas, fruit punches) Whole milk Dairy • Compare sugar contents of yogurt. Milk (non-fat,  skim, 1%) Milk alternatives (soy, almond, rice with calcium and vitamin  D added) Yogurt (non-fat,  skim, 1%) Low-fat cottage  cheese Chocolate milk (strawberry  or other flavors) Milk (2% fat)  Yogurt (2% fat) Cheese (reduced-fat, low-fat) Desserts/Snacks • Choose fruit for dessert. • Choose nuts, dairy, fruit, vegetables, and whole foods for snacks. Fruit Yogurt-and-fresh-fruit parfait Frozen 100% fruit-juice bars Milk (non-fat,  skim, 1%) Other foods from the Green list Fruit desserts (made with minimal added  fats and sugar) Low-fat puddings  Frozen yogurt and ice milk Popcorn, pretzels, baked chips Whole milk, cream, half-and-half Plain yogurt (about 3% fat)  Cottage cheese  (about 3% fat) Most cheeses  Cream cheese, sour cream High-sugar frozen ice pops Fruit pies, cobblers Cakes, cookies, most pastries Ice cream, gelato Pudding Fried chips, buttered  popcorn  