Army  Regulation  40–562BUMEDINST  6230.15BAFI  48–110_IPCG  COMDTINST  M6230.4GMedical  ServicesImmunizations andChemoprophylaxisfor the Preventionof InfectiousDiseasesHeadquartersDepartments  of  the  Army,the  Navy,the  Air  Force,and  the  Coast  GuardWashington,  DC7  October  2013UNCLASSIFIEDSUMMARY of CHANGEAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4GImmunizations and Chemoprophylaxis for the Prevention of Infectious DiseasesThis major revision, dated 7 October 2013--o  Changes the regulation title to "Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis for thePrevention of Infectious Diseases" (cover).o  Describes the responsibilities of the privileged physician with medicaloversight of any clinic or activity that administers immunizations (para 1-4c(2)).o  Describes the responsibilities of the privileged health care provider, who isunder the direction of the privileged physician of any clinic or activity thatadministers immunizations (para 1-4c(3)).o  Changes a reference to five-injection thresholds to reflect current evidence-based practices (para 2-1e(1)).o  Adds a description of procedures for vaccine storage and handling (para 2-3).o  Adds a description of military indications for required and recommendedvaccines (paras 4-2 through 4-19).o  Makes changes to chemoprophylaxis recommendations (chap 5).o  Adds a description of procedures for documenting immunizations andimmunization recordkeeping (para B-5).o  Establishes and recommends immunization personnel training (para B-6 andtable B-1).o  Establishes criteria for determining required immunizations for militarypersonnel (app D).o  Makes administrative revisions (throughout).HeadquartersDepartments  of  the  Army,the  Navy,the  Air  Force,and  the  Coast  GuardWashington,  DC7  October  2013*Army  Regulation  40–562*BUMEDINST  6230.15B*AFI  48–110_IP*CG  COMDTINST  M6230.4GImmunizations  and  Chemoprophylaxis  for  the  Prevention  of  Infectious  DiseasesMedical  ServicesEffective  7  November  2013H i s t o r y .   T h i s   p u b l i c a t i o n   i s   a   m a j o rrevision.Summary.  This  regulation  for  immuni-z a t i o n   a n d   c h e m o p r o p h y l a x i s   u p d a t e squality  standards  for  immunization  deliv-e r y ;   e s t a b l i s h e s   e l e c t r o n i c   i m m u n i z a t i o ntracking systems as the preferred immuni-zation  record;  provides  guidance  for  losti m m u n i z a t i o n   r e c o r d s ,   i m m u n i z a t i o nc r e d i t   f o r   p r e - e x i s t i n g   i m m u n i t y ,   a n dcomplying  with  regulations  for  vaccinesand  other  products  administered  in  inves-tigational,  new  drug  status  or  in  accord-a n c e   w i t h   e m e r g e n c y   u s e   a u t h o r i z a t i o n ;describes  dividing  initial  entry  immuniza-tion  into  two  clusters;  and  describes  therole  of  the  Military  Vaccine  Office.Applicability.  This  regulation  applies  tot h e   A c t i v e   A r m y ,   t h e   A r m y   N a t i o n a lGuard/Army National Guard of the UnitedStates, and the U.S. Army Reserve, unlessotherwise stated. It also applies to the fol-l o w i n g :   u n i f o r m e d   D e p a r t m e n t s   o f   t h eNavy,  Air  Force,  and  Coast  Guard  (in-cluding the active and reserve componentso f   e a c h   S e r v i c e ) ;   n o n m i l i t a r y   p e r s o n sunder  military  jurisdiction;  selected  Fed-e r a l   e m p l o y e e s ;   s e l e c t e d   e m p l o y e e s   o fDepartment  of  Defense  contractors;  andF a m i l y   m e m b e r s   a n d   o t h e r   h e a l t h   c a r ebeneficiaries  eligible  for  care  within  themilitary  health  care  system.  This  regula-tion  is  applicable  during  mobilization.Proponent  and  exception  authority.The  proponent  of  this  regulation  is  TheSurgeon  General.  The  proponent  has  theauthority to approve exceptions or waiversto  this  regulation  that  are  consistent  withcontrolling  law  and  regulations.  The  pro-ponent may delegate this approval author-ity,  in  writing,  to  a  division  chief  withinthe  proponent  agency  or  its  direct  report-ing  unit  or  field  operating  agency,  in  thegrade of colonel or the civilian equivalent.Activities  may  request  a  waiver  to  thisregulation  by  providing  justification  thatincludes  a  full  analysis  of  the  expectedbenefits  and  must  include  formal  reviewby  the  activity’s  senior  legal  officer.  Allwaiver  requests  will  be  endorsed  by  thecommander  or  senior  leader  of  the  requ-e s t i n g   a c t i v i t y   a n d   f o r w a r d e d   t h r o u g ht h e i r   h i g h e r   h e a d q u a r t e r s   t o   t h e   p o l i c yproponent. Refer to AR 25–30 for specificguidance.Army  internal  control  process.  Thisregulation  contains  internal  control  provi-sions  and  identifies  key  internal  controlsthat  must  be  evaluated  (see  appendix  E).S u p p l e m e n t a t i o n .   S u p p l e m e n t a t i o n   o fthis  regulation  and  establishment  of  com-mand and local forms are prohibited with-o u t   p r i o r   a p p r o v a l   f r o m   T h e   S u r g e o nG e n e r a l   ( D A S G – Z A ) ,   7 7 0 0   A r l i n g t o nBlvd.,  Falls  Church,  VA  22041–5143.Suggested  improvements.  Users  areinvited  to  send  comments  and  suggestedimprovements on DA Form 2028 (Recom-m e n d e d   C h a n g e s   t o   P u b l i c a t i o n s   a n dB l a n k   F o r m s )   d i r e c t l y   t o   T h e   S u r g e o nG e n e r a l   ( D A S G – Z A ) ,   7 7 0 0   A r l i n g t o nBlvd., Falls Church, VA 22041–5143. AirForce  users  are  invited  to  send  commentsand suggested improvements on AF Form8 4 7   ( R e c o m m e n d a t i o n s   f o r   C h a n g e   o fP u b l i c a t i o n )   t h r o u g h   c h a n n e l s   t o   H e a d -quarters,  AFMSA/SGOP,  7700  ArlingtonBlvd.,  Falls  Church,  VA  22041–5143.Distribution.  This  publication  is  availa-ble  in  electronic  media  only  and  is  in-tended  for  command  levels  A,  B,  C,  D,and  E  for  the  Active  Army,  the  ArmyNational  Guard/Army  National  Guard  ofthe United States, and the U.S. Army Re-serve.  Navy/Marine  Corps:  Ships,  units,a n d   s t a t i o n s   h a v i n g   m e d i c a l   d e p a r t m e n tpersonnel.  Air  Force:  Active  Air  Force,the  Air  National  Guard,  and  Air  ForceR e s e r v e .   C o a s t   G u a r d :   A c t i v e   C o a s tGuard  and  Coast  Reserves.*This  regulation  supercedes  AR  40–562/BUMEDINST  6230.15A/AFJI  48–110/CG  COMDTINST  M6230.4F,  dated  29  September  2006.AR  40–562/BUMEDINST  6230.15B/AFI  48–110_IP/CG  COMDTINST  M6230.4G  (cid:129)  7  October  2013iUNCLASSIFIEDContents (Listed  by  paragraph  and  page  number)Chapter  1Introduction,  page 1Purpose  (cid:129) 1–1,  page 1References  (cid:129) 1–2,  page 1Explanation  of  abbreviations  and  terms  (cid:129) 1–3,  page 1Responsibilities  (cid:129) 1–4,  page 1Chapter  2Program  Elements  and  Clinical  Considerations,  page 2Standards  (cid:129) 2–1,  page 2Logistics  (cid:129) 2–2,  page 3Storage  and  handling  (cid:129) 2–3,  page 3Hypersensitivity  or  allergy  (cid:129) 2–4,  page 5Immunizing  women  of  childbearing  potential  (cid:129) 2–5,  page 5Exemptions  (cid:129) 2–6,  page 6Immunization  and  chemoprophylaxis  records  (cid:129) 2–7,  page 7Jet-injection  immunization  devices  (cid:129) 2–8,  page 8Emergency  response  requirements  (cid:129) 2–9,  page 8Adverse  events  (cid:129) 2–10,  page 9Program  evaluation  (cid:129) 2–11,  page 9Blood  donation  (cid:129) 2–12,  page 10Chapter  3Personnel  Subject  to  Immunization,  page 10Military  accessions  (cid:129) 3–1,  page 10Military  personnel  (cid:129) 3–2,  page 11Certain  civilian  employees  (cid:129) 3–3,  page 11Contracted  workers  (cid:129) 3–4,  page 12Department  of  Defense,  U.S.  Coast  Guard  schools,  childcare  centers  and  youth  programs  (cid:129) 3–5,  page 12Other  populations  (cid:129) 3–6,  page 13Chapter  4Specific  Immunization  Requirements  for  Department  of  Defense  and  U.S.  Coast  Guard  Personnel,page 13Civilian  applicability  (cid:129) 4–1,  page 13Adenovirus  types  4  and  7  (cid:129) 4–2,  page 13Anthrax  (cid:129) 4–3,  page 13Haemophilus  influenzae  serotype  b,  commonly  called  Hib  (cid:129) 4–4,  page 14Hepatitis  A  (cid:129) 4–5,  page 14Hepatitis  B  (cid:129) 4–6,  page 14Influenza  (cid:129) 4–7,  page 14Japanese  encephalitis  (cid:129) 4–8,  page 14Measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  (MMR)  (cid:129) 4–9,  page 15Meningococcal  (cid:129) 4–10,  page 15Pertussis  (cid:129) 4–11,  page 15Pneumococcal  (cid:129) 4–12,  page 15Poliomyelitis  (cid:129) 4–13,  page 15Rabies  (cid:129) 4–14,  page 16Smallpox  (cid:129) 4–15,  page 16Tetanus,  diphtheria,  and  pertussis  (cid:129) 4–16,  page 16Typhoid  fever  (cid:129) 4–17,  page 17Varicella  (cid:129) 4–18,  page 17iiAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013Contents—ContinuedYellow  fever  (cid:129) 4–19,  page 17Chapter  5Chemoprophylaxis,  page 18General  (cid:129) 5–1,  page 18Anthrax  (cid:129) 5–2,  page 18Group  A  streptococcus  (cid:129) 5–3,  page 18Influenza  (cid:129) 5–4,  page 18Leptospirosis  (cid:129) 5–5,  page 19Malaria  (cid:129) 5–6,  page 19Meningococcal  disease  (cid:129) 5–7,  page 19Plague  (cid:129) 5–8,  page 19Scrub  typhus  (cid:129) 5–9,  page 19Smallpox  (cid:129) 5–10,  page 19Traveler’s  diarrhea  (cid:129) 5–11,  page 19Chapter  6Biological  Warfare  Defense,  page 20Responsibilities  (cid:129) 6–1,  page 20Procedures  (cid:129) 6–2,  page 20Chapter  7Vaccines  and  Other  Products  in  Investigational  New  Drug  Status,  page 20Purpose  (cid:129) 7–1,  page 20General  guidance  on  investigational  new  drug  products  (cid:129) 7–2,  page 20Health  recordkeeping  requirements  for  investigational  new  drug  products  (cid:129) 7–3,  page 20Information  requirements  for  investigational  new  drug  products  (cid:129) 7–4,  page 21Coordination  (cid:129) 7–5,  page 21Chapter  8Vaccines  and  Other  Products  Used  Under  Emergency  Use  Authorization,  page 21General  (cid:129) 8–1,  page 21Criteria  (cid:129) 8–2,  page 21Refusal  options  (cid:129) 8–3,  page 21Health  recordkeeping  requirements  for  emergency  use  authorization  products  (cid:129) 8–4,  page 21Information  requirements  for  emergency  use  authorization  products  (cid:129) 8–5,  page 21Department  of  Defense  requests  for  emergency  use  authorizations  (cid:129) 8–6,  page 21Coordination  (cid:129) 8–7,  page 21AppendixesA. References,  page 22B. Standards  for  Military  Immunization,  page 25C. Medical  and  Administrative  Exemption  Codes,  page 28D.E.Immunizations  for  Military  Personnel,  page 29Internal  Control  Evaluation  Process,  page 30Table  ListTable  B–1:  Training  standards,  page 26Table  C–1:  Medical  exemption  codes,  page 28Table  C–2:  Administrative  exemption  codes,  page 28Table  D–1:  Immunizations  for  military  personnel,  page 29GlossaryAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013iiiChapter  1Introduction1–1.  PurposeThis  publication  provides  directive  requirements  for  the  Military  Vaccination  Program;  establishes  general  principles,procedures,  policies,  and  responsibilities  for  the  immunization  program;  and  implements  military  and  internationalhealth  regulations  and  requirements.1–2.  ReferencesRequired  and  related  publications  and  prescribed  and  referenced  forms  are  listed  in  appendix  A.1–3.  Explanation  of  abbreviations  and  termsAbbreviations  and  special  terms  used  in  this  regulation  are  explained  in  the  glossary.1–4.  Responsibilitiesa .   C o m m a n d   m e d i c a l   a u t h o r i t y .   T h e   c o m m a n d   m e d i c a l   a u t h o r i t y   w i l l   p r e s c r i b e   s p e c i f i c   i m m u n i z a t i o n   a n dchemoprophylactic requirements for their units per requirements established by this publication and additional guidanceprovided  by  the  appropriate  surgeon  general  or  the  U.S  Coast  Guard  (USCG),  Director  of  Health,  Safety,  and  Work-Life  (USCG,  CG–11).b.  Command leaders. Combatant commanders, major command commanders, unit commanding officers, command-ers  of  special  operations  and  forces,  and  officers-in-charge  will:( 1 )   E n s u r e   m i l i t a r y   a n d   n o n m i l i t a r y   p e r s o n n e l   u n d e r   t h e i r   j u r i s d i c t i o n   r e c e i v e   r e q u i r e d   i m m u n i z a t i o n s   a n dchemoprophylaxis.  Ensure  immunizations  and  immunization  exemption  codes  (medical  or  administrative)  are  docu-mented  in  an  approved  Department  of  Defense  (DOD)  or  USCG  Service  Immunization  Tracking  System  (ITS),  asdescribed  in  paragraph  2–7a.(2)  Maintain appropriate international, Federal, State, and local records of all immunizations and chemoprophylaxis.(3)  Ensure personnel transferred to another command or unit, including advanced instructional training or technicalschool,  receive  proper  screening  for,  and  administration  of,  appropriate  immunizations  and  chemoprophylaxis  for  thearea  assigned,  and  are  timed  to  provide  immunity  before  deployment  or  exposure  or  to  complete  a  vaccine  series.(4)  Ensure  immunization  exemptions  are  documented  in  the  Service  ITS.(5)  Ensure  vaccine  doses  or  boosters  are  administered  to  complete  a  started  series  or  maintain  immunity.(6)  Ensure  deviations  from  specified  immunizations  are  cleared  or  authorized  by  the  appropriate  combatant  com-mander;  surgeon  general;  or  USCG,  CG–11.(7)  Observe  international  military  standardization  agreements  (STANAGs).c.  Medical commanders, commanding officers, and command surgeons. Medical commanders, commanding officers,and  command  surgeons  will:(1)  Ensure  individuals  administering  immunizations  are  properly  trained  in  accordance  with  DOD,  Service,  andCenters  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  (CDC)  guidelines  and  act  within  their  scope  of  practice  as  determined  byeach  Service.  A  training  checklist  is  found  in  appendix  B,  paragraph  B–6  and  table  B–1.(2)  Appoint,  in  writing,  a  privileged  physician  with  medical  oversight  over  any  clinic  or  activity  that  administersimmunizations.  This  physician  will:(a)  Complete  appropriate  training  in  immunization  science  in  residence  or  via  distance  learning.(b)  Be available to address immunization issues, although it is not required that the privileged physician be presentfor  administration  of  vaccines.  The  USCG  requires  a  privileged  health  care  provider  to  administer  immunizations  tocivilians  who  are  eligible  for  care  in  a  medical  treatment  facility.(c)  Establish and sign vaccine and chemoprophylaxis standing orders for clinics or other locations where immuniza-tions  or  chemoprophylaxis  medications  are  administered.(d)  Ensure standard operating procedures (SOPs) are established that implement current national standards for adultand  pediatric  immunizations  and  chemoprophylactic  practices  and  promote  appropriate  quality  improvement  mecha-nisms.  Incorporate  local  practices  and  requirements  of  policies  contained  in  references  listed  at  appendix  A.(3)  Appoint,  in  writing,  a  privileged  health  care  provider,  who  is  under  the  direction  of  the  privileged  physicianappointed  in  paragraph  1–4c(2),  to  have  oversight  over  the  daily  activities  of  any  clinic  or  activity  that  administersimmunizations.  The  privileged  physician  may  serve  as  the  health  care  provider  if  no  one  is  available  to  assume  theposition  of  privileged  health  care  provider.(4)  Ensure  patients  are  evaluated  for  preexisting  immunity,  screened  for  administrative  and  medical  exemptions,and/or evaluated for the need for medical exemptions to immunizations or chemoprophylaxis medications. Exemptionsare  granted  per  paragraph  2–6;  document  any  exemptions.(5)  Monitor  the  immunization  status  of  personnel  and  ensure  compliance  with  policies  and  procedures  for  creatingand  maintaining  immunization  records  in  accordance  with  Title  42,  United  States  Code,  Chapter  300aa-25.(6)  Ensure  emergency  medical  response  is  available  and  that  personnel  who  administer  immunizations  receiveAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 20131training on: basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation, administration of epinephrine, and emergency response to immuniza-tion-adverse  events,  at  a  minimum.(7)  Ensure health care providers are available to respond to and report adverse events resulting from immunization.(8)  Ensure  patients  needing  evaluation  of  adverse  events  after  immunization  are  referred  to  appropriate  health  careproviders,  such  as  medical  subspecialists  (including  specialists  in  immunization  health  care)  for  evaluation,  consulta-tion,  or  indicated  intervention.d.  The  Army,  as  Executive  Agent  for  the  Military  Vaccination  Program.  The  Army,  as  Executive  Agent  for  theMilitary  Vaccination  Program  and  in  cooperation  with  the  Military  Services,  will:(1)  Operate  a  Military  Vaccine  (MILVAX)  Office  to  provide  the  Military  Services  with  a  coordinated  source  forinformation and education of vaccine-related activities needed in order to implement Department of Defense Directive(DODD)  6205.3,  DODD  6205.02E,  and  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DODI)  6205.4.(2)  Synchronize,  integrate,  and  coordinate  immunization  policies  and  other  immunization-related  activities  for  allDOD  components.(3)  Facilitate and promote the quality of immunization policy, implementation, education, distribution, risk commu-nication,  administration,  clinical  services,  safety  surveillance,  research,  and  program  evaluation.(4)  Provide  a  comprehensive  access  point  to  provide  information,  education  resources,  safety  surveillance,  anduniform  procedures  to  identify,  report,  and  evaluate  vaccine-associated  adverse  events.(5)  Maintain  historical  vaccine  usage  data  as  well  as  identify  future  vaccine  requirements  as  needed.(6)  Provide primary coordination between DOD and vaccine manufacturers for all applicable post-licensure vaccinestudies.(7)  Coordinate  with  other  Secretaries  of  the  Military  Departments  and  the  Commandant,  USCG  to:(a)  Establish  joint  clinical  quality  standards  for  immunization  delivery  and  education  and  training  to  personnelinvolved  in  immunization  healthcare.  The  goals  of  these  standards  are  to  promote  clinical  excellence  and  decreasepractice  variability.(b)  Assess the DOD Immunization Program by developing metrics to measure individual medical readiness, vaccineeffectiveness  and  safety,  and  compliance  with  overall  immunization  policies.(c)  Regularly  update  the  Joint  Regulation  on  Immunization  and  Chemoprophylaxis  for  the  Prevention  of  InfectiousDiseases.(8)  Promote  scholarly  immunization  study  activities  through  the  Army’s  Medical  Infectious  Disease  ResearchProgram  using  funds  both  from  the  Defense  Health  Program  and  the  Research,  Development,  Test,  and  Evaluation.e.  Each  of  the  Military  Services.  Each  of  the  Military  Services  will  provide  an  immunization  health  care  capabilityto deliver medical specialty consultation, case management, and clinical investigation. The U.S. Navy provides medicalservices  for  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps.Chapter  2Program  Elements  and  Clinical  Considerations2–1.  Standardsa.  Department  of  Defense  and  U.S.  Coast  Guard  policy.  The  Military  Service  policy  concerning  immunizationsfollows  the  recommendations  of  the  CDC  and  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Immunization  Practices  (ACIP)  and  theprescribing  information  on  the  manufacturer’s  package  inserts,  unless  there  is  a  military-relevant  reason  to  do  other-wise.  Any  vaccine  or  drug  licensed  by  the  U.S.  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  or  the  U.S.  Department  ofHealth  and  Human  Services  (DHHS)  may  be  used,  as  well  as  vaccines  or  drugs  compliant  with  applicable  DODinvestigational new drug (IND) or emergency use authorization (EUA) processes. Privileged health care providers maymake  clinical  decisions  for  individual  beneficiaries  to  customize  medical  care  or  to  respond  to  an  individual  clinicalsituation  that  is  compliant  with  IND  or  EUA  processes.b.  Standards  for  delivery  of  military  vaccines. Standards for delivery of military vaccines are provided in appendixB.  Military  Services  will  abide  by  these  standards  in  routine  immunization  delivery.c.  Expiration date. Vaccines or drugs will not be used beyond the manufacturer’s potency expiration date, unless theappropriate  surgeon  general  or  USCG,  CG–11,  authorizes  extension  in  exceptional  circumstances.d.  Screening  for  contraindications.  Screen  all  potential  vaccines  for  contraindications,  precautions,  or  warnings  perthe  prescribing  information  on  the  manufacturer’s  package  insert.e.  Immunization  schedules  and  intervals.(1)  Initial  series.  Once  an  immunization  series  has  been  started,  it  must  be  completed,  unless  a  medical  oradministrative  exemption  exists.  Restarting  an  immunization  series  or  adding  extra  doses  is  not  necessary  when  aninitial  series  of  a  vaccine  or  toxoid  is  interrupted;  instead,  give  delayed  doses  as  soon  as  feasible.(2)    Doses.  Vaccine  doses  in  an  initial  series  will  not  be  administered  at  intervals  less  than  the  recommendedminimum intervals or earlier than the minimum age unless the doses are part of a CDC catch-up schedule or during an2AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013outbreak.  Doses  in  an  initial  series  administered  5  or  more  days  earlier  than  the  minimum  interval  should  not  becounted  as  valid  doses.  The  next  valid  dose  is  calculated  after  the  last  invalid  dose.(3)  Booster doses. After the initial series of a vaccine is complete, a booster dose may be recommended for specificvaccines. For vaccines that do not provide lifetime immunity, the booster dose is usually recommended or required  toincrease  immunity  back  to  protective  levels.f.  Simultaneous  immunizations.(1)  When simultaneous vaccine injections are necessary, administer vaccines in different limbs. The anatomical sitemay  depend  on  the  age  of  the  individual,  and  the  degree  of  muscle  development.  If  different  anatomical  sites  are  notpossible,  then  separate  the  injections  by  at  least  1  inch.  Refer  to  the  ACIP  General  Recommendations  on  Immuniza-tions  for  proper  needle  lengths.(2)  Priority of immunization is based on the relative likelihood of various microbial threats and the existence of anyvaccine-vaccine,  vaccine-antibody,  or  vaccine-drug  interactions  and  is  best  performed  by  the  health  care  provider.  Inmilitary  training  centers,  contagious  diseases  typically  represent  the  most  imminent  threats.(3)  Spacing  of  live  and  inactivated  vaccines.(a)  Two  or  more  inactivated  vaccines  can  be  administered  simultaneously  or  at  the  prescribed  interval  and  restric-tions  indicated  in  the  package  insert  for  each  vaccine.(b)  Inactivated  and  live  vaccines  can  be  administered  simultaneously  or  at  the  prescribed  interval  and  restrictionsindicated  in  the  package  insert  for  each  vaccine.(c)  Two or more live virus vaccines must be administered simultaneously or separated by at least 28 days (4 weeks).Refer  to  ACIP  guidelines  for  exceptions.g.  Screening  for  immunity.  For  some  vaccine-preventable  diseases,  serologic  or  other  tests  can  be  used  to  identifypre-existing  immunity  from  prior  infections  or  immunizations  that  may  eliminate  unnecessary  immunizations.h.  Live virus vaccines and tuberculosis testing. Vaccinations with live vaccines may affect tuberculosis (TB) testing.This includes both the Mantoux tuberculin skin test and the Intereferon-Gamma Release Assays test whole-blood  test.To  avoid  interference:(1)  Administer  live  virus  vaccines  and  TB  test  on  the  same  day.(2)  Perform  TB  test  4  to  6  weeks  after  administration  of  live  virus  vaccines,  or(3)  Administer  live  virus  vaccines,  once  the  TB  test  is  read.2–2.  Logisticsa.  Requisitioning of immunizing and chemoprophylaxis agents. Immunizing and chemoprophylaxis agents are requi-sitioned  in  accordance  with  medical  supply  procedures.  However,  vaccinia  immune  globulin—also  known  as  VIG-intravenous—is  available  only  by  ordering  through  the  MILVAX  Office.b.  Transportation,  storage,  and  handling.  All  personnel  will  maintain  the  cold  chain  in  vaccine  delivery  duringtransportation, storage, and handling. Shipping and storage advice is available from Services medical logistics centers.c.  Small  stations,  ships,  and  cutters.  To  minimize  the  shipment  of  vaccines  that  must  be  stored  at  frozen  tempera-tures, small stations, ships, and cutters may requisition these items from a nearby military medical activity stocking theitems.  Requisitioning  procedures  and  reimbursement  are  prescribed  by  the  supplying  activity.2–3.  Storage  and  handlinga.  Safety  and  efficacy  of  vaccines.  Failure  to  adhere  to  recommended  specifications  for  storage  and  handling  ofvaccines  may  reduce  potency,  resulting  in  inadequate  immune  responses  in  the  recipients  and  inadequate  protectionagainst disease. To maintain the safety and efficacy of vaccines, ensure immunizing and chemoprophylaxis agents  arestored,  shipped,  and  handled  in  accordance  with  the  pharmaceutical  manufacturer’s  instructions  as  outlined  in  theproduct  package  insert  or  other  guidance.b.  Policies  for  maintaining  vaccines.  All  locations  that  maintain  and  administer  vaccines  will  develop  and  imple-ment  policies  and  procedures  for  maintaining  cold  chain  management  of  vaccines.c.  Shelf-life  after  opening.(1)  Administer  vaccines  shortly  after  withdrawal  from  single-dose  or  multi-dose  vials,  in  accordance  with  themanufacturer’s  package  insert.(2)  Single  dose  vials  are  meant  for  one-time  use  only.  At  the  end  of  the  clinic  day,  discard  all  single-dose  vialswithout  protective  caps.(3)  For multi-dose vaccine vials that do not require reconstitution, doses that remain after withdrawal of a dose canbe administered until the expiration date printed on the vial or vaccine packaging, so long as the vial has been storedcorrectly  and  the  vaccine  is  not  visibly  contaminated  and  the  manufacturer  has  not  specified  otherwise.(4)  Multi-dose vials that require reconstitution must be used within the interval specified by the manufacturer. Afterreconstitution,  the  new  expiration  date  should  be  written  on  the  vial.d.  Diluents.(1)  Diluents  are  not  interchangeable,  unless  specified  by  the  manufacturer.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 20133(2)  Transport diluents at room temperature in validated containers, but not in direct contact with shipping gel packs.(3)  Store  diluents  according  to  the  manufacturer’s  package  insert.(4)  Discard  diluents  when  stored  inappropriately  or  expired.e.  Filling  syringes  and  attaching  needles.(1)  Never  mix  individual  vaccines  in  the  same  syringe.  Different  vaccines  should  never  be  mixed  in  the  samesyringe  unless  specifically  licensed  for  such  use.  Do  not  transfer  vaccine  between  syringes.(2)  Use  a  separate  needle  and  syringe  for  each  injection.(3)  Label filled syringes with the type of vaccine, lot number, and date of filling, unless the vaccine is administeredimmediately  after  being  drawn  into  the  syringe  by  the  same  person  administering  the  vaccine.(4)  Attach  needles  to  manufactured  filled  syringes  just  prior  to  administration.  Discard  needle  and  syringe  if  thevaccine is not administered before the end of the clinic day or vaccination session in accordance with the manufactur-er’s  package  insert.  If  no  time  line  is  provided,  discard  after  8  hours.f.  Prefilling  syringes.(1)  Prefilling  syringes  is  highly  discouraged  because  of  the  increased  risk  of  administration  errors  and  possiblebacterial growth in vaccines that do not contain preservatives. Syringes other than those filled by the manufacturer aredesigned  for  immediate  use  and  not  for  vaccine  storage.(2)  In  certain  circumstances  in  which  a  single  vaccine  type  is  being  used,  such  as  during  an  influenza  vaccinationcampaign,  filling  a  small  number  of  syringes  may  be  considered.(3)  Discard  unused  syringes  filled  by  the  end  user  (that  is,  not  filled  by  the  manufacturer)  in  accordance  with  themanufacturer’s  package  insert.  If  no  time  line  is  provided,  discard  after  8  hours.g.  Storing  vaccine.(1)  Ensure  that  only  vaccines  are  stored  in  the  vaccine  storage  unit  (refrigerator  or  freezer).(2)  Store refrigerated vaccines at temperatures of 35°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). Do not expose refrigerated vaccines to(3)  Store  frozen  vaccines  at  temperatures  of  5°F  (-15°C)  or  lower.(4)  Store all reconstituted lyophilized (freeze-dried) vaccines in accordance with the manufacturer’s temperature andfreezing  temperatures.light  condition  parameters.h.  Vaccine  storage  equipment.  Ensure  that  vaccine  storage  units  are  carefully  selected,  used  properly,  and  consis-tently  monitored  to  maintain  recommended  vaccine  storage  temperatures.(1)  Stand-alone refrigerators and freezers are recommended for storage of vaccines. A combination refrigerator/frost-free  freezer  for  home  use  is  acceptable  if  only  the  refrigerator  compartment  of  the  combination  unit  is  used  to  storerefrigerated  vaccines.  A  separate  stand-alone  freezer  should  then  be  used  to  store  frozen  vaccine.  Dormitory  stylerefrigerators  are  not  authorized  for  vaccine  storage.(2)  Use  certified  and  calibrated  thermometers  in  all  vaccine  storage  units.  Uncertified  liquid  (mercury  or  alcohol)thermometers  and  uncertified  dial-type  household  refrigerator/freezer  thermometers  are  not  authorized.(3)  Ensure  alarm  systems  are  incorporated  as  part  of  the  vaccine  storage  unit  to  alert  staff  of  power  failures  orindicate  whether  or  not  vaccine  temperatures  have  been  maintained.i.  Temperature  tracking.(1)  Ensure  temperatures  are  documented  for  each  vaccine  storage  unit.  Physically  confirm  the  temperature  of  allvaccine refrigerators and freezers at a minimum of two times per day. Document the date, time, and temperature of thevaccine  storage  unit  on  a  temperature  log.  Vaccine  outside  of  a  refrigerator  or  freezer  must  have  the  temperaturechecked  and  documented  every  hour.(2)  Keep  temperature  logs  for  at  least  3  years.  State  and/or  local  requirements  may  require  longer  recordkeeping.(3)  Record  date  and  time  of  any  mechanical  malfunction  or  power  outage  on  the  temperature  log  or  on  anotherequipment-tracking  document.j.  Vaccine  storage  alarms.(1)  Ensure  alarm  systems  are  capable  of  monitoring  vaccine  storage  24  hours  a  day,  7  days  per  week.  Ensure  thesystem either notifies an accountable person when a failure is detected, or the system is capable of indicating that  thevaccine  temperature  integrity  was  maintained  during  the  storage  period  (or  notes  any  deviations).(2)  Ensure current personnel contact information exists on auto-dialers, and that appropriate coverage occurs duringperiods  of  leave,  holiday  weekends,  and  so  forth.(3)  Monitor  alarms  electronically  and  physically  24  hours  a  day,  7  days  per  week.(4)  Test  the  entire  alarm  system,  to  include  refrigerator-freezer-unit  sensor  to  the  remote  monitoring  station  andtelephone  or  pager,  at  least  monthly.  Maintain  test  records  for  at  least  3  years.(5)  For  vaccine  storage  units  within  restricted  access  areas,  ensure  the  temperature  can  be  checked  and  a  light  oraudible  alarm  is  installed  to  indicate  when  the  storage  unit  temperature  is  out  of  range  without  having  to  physicallyenter  the  restricted  area.k.  Transporting  vaccines.4AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013(1)  Always  transport  vaccines  in  properly  insulated  containers  to  maintain  the  recommended  temperatures.(2)  Ensure  containers  used  for  transporting  vaccines  are  capable  of  maintaining  the  vaccine  at  the  correct  tempera-tures.  Validated  storage  devices  include  the  Vaxicool,  Vaxipac,  manufacturer  shipping  containers,  Styrofoam(tm)coolers  with  at  least  2-inch  thick  walls,  or  Endurotherm  insulating  shipping  containers.(3)  Pack  containers  to  appropriately  maintain  the  proper  temperature  while  vaccine  is  transported  or  shipped.Refrigerated or frozen packs are authorized for use to maintain the cold chain when used according to the U.S.  ArmyMedical  and  Materiel  Agency  (USAMMA)  Distribution  Operations  Center  instructions.(4)  Include  calibrated  thermometers  to  track  temperatures  in  all  transportation  and  off-site  storage  containers.(5)  Pack  vaccines  in  their  original  packaging.  Do  not  remove  vaccine  vials  from  boxes.(6)  Document  vaccine  type,  quantity,  date,  time,  and  originating  facility  on  the  outside  of  the  transportationcontainers.(7)  Ensure temperatures are tracked during transportation and any deviations in temperature are readily identifiable.l.  Vaccine  disposal  or  disposition.(1)  Discard  syringes  or  vials  that  contain  live  virus  vaccines  per  installation  policy.(2)  Contact the pharmacy or logistics office for specific policies regarding the disposition of unopened vials, expiredvials,  unused  doses,  and  potentially  compromised  vaccine.(3)  Label  potentially  compromised  vaccines  with  the  words  “Do  not  use”  and  place  in  the  refrigerator  or  freezerbased on the manufacturer’s instructions as if they were not compromised. Report all compromised anthrax, smallpox,and  influenza  vaccines  to  USAMMA  for  validation  before  destruction.  Contact  the  manufacturer  for  all  other  poten-tially  compromised  vaccines  for  disposition  or  destruction  instructions.(4)  Report  all  confirmed  compromised  vaccine  losses  through  Service-specific  channels  to  the  Military  VaccineOffice. The report must include the following: description of the reason for the loss, vaccines compromised, total vials/doses  lost,  and  cost  of  lost  or  compromised  vaccines.2–4.  Hypersensitivity  or  allergya.  Before  administration  of  any  medication,  including  vaccines,  determine  if  the  individual  has  previously  shownany unusual degree of adverse reaction or allergy to it or any specific component of the vaccine or its packaging (forexample,  eggs,  gelatin,  preservatives,  latex).  Review  the  manufacturers’  package  inserts  and  reference  materials  forproduct-specific  information.b.  Defer  individuals  with  reported  hypersensitivity  to  a  particular  vaccine  or  its  components  from  immunization.c.  Refer  individuals  with  a  hypersensitivity  to  an  appropriate  medical  specialist  for  evaluation,  unless  the  healthrecord  contains  documentation  of  a  prior  consultation  or  a  specialist’s  recommendations.  Document  hypersensitivityand  any  recommended  exemption(s)  in  the  electronic  ITS  and  the  appropriate  sections  of  the  health  record.2–5.  Immunizing  women  of  childbearing  potentialA pregnancy screening test for women of childbearing potential is not routinely required before administering vaccines,including live virus vaccines. Take the following precautions to avoid unintentional immunization with contraindicatedproducts  during  pregnancy—a.  Display signs asking pregnant women to identify themselves. Discreetly ask her if she is, or might be, pregnant.Document responses in the health record. If the answer is “yes,” and the ACIP does not recommend the vaccine for usein  pregnancy,  then  defer  her  from  immunization  or  refer  to  an  obstetric  healthcare  provider  to  determine  whether  thebenefits of immunization outweigh risks in pregnancy. If the vaccine is recommend for use in pregnancy by ACIP, thevaccine  may  be  administered.  If  pregnancy  status  is  uncertain,  defer  immunization  until  after  a  negative  pregnancyevaluation  (for  example,  urine,  or  serologic  test).b.  With regard to smallpox (vaccinia) vaccine, a specific pre-immunization screening form (available at http://www.smallpox.mil/resource/forms.asp) that assesses the date of the last menstrual period is required. For women whose lastmenstrual  period  was  more  than  28  days  ago,  a  pregnancy  test  is  recommended.c.  Breastfeeding  women  may  be  immunized  in  accordance  with  the  current  ACIP  guidelines.  At  present,  noimmunization  products  are  medically  contraindicated  in  breastfeeding  women.  Smallpox  vaccine  is  withheld  frombreastfeeding women, except in an outbreak, primarily due to the potential for contact transmission of vaccinia virus tothe  child.d.  If  a  live  virus  vaccine  is  administered,  counsel  her  to  avoid  becoming  pregnant  for  the  appropriate  interval  asrecommended  by  CDC  or  the  vaccine  manufacturer.  Document  the  counseling  in  the  health  record.e.  If she is pregnant and immunization is indicated, immunize in consultation with her obstetric health care provider.f.  If a contraindicated vaccine is inadvertently administered to a pregnant woman, report the event upon discovery tothe preventive medicine point of contact and obstetric services and complete appropriate quality assurance documents.Report  such  cases  to  any  applicable  registry.  For  assistance  with  registry  referral  procedures,  contact  the  preventivemedicine  service  or  MILVAX.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201352–6.  ExemptionsThere  are  two  types  of  exemptions  from  immunization-medical  and  administrative.  Granting  medical  exemptions  is  amedical  function.  Granting  administrative  exemptions  is  a  nonmedical  function.a.  Medical exemptions. A medical exemption includes any medical contraindication relevant to a specific vaccine orother  medication.  Health  care  providers  will  determine  a  medical  exemption  based  on  the  health  of  the  vaccinecandidate  and  the  nature  of  the  immunization  under  consideration.  Medical  exemptions  may  be  temporary  (up  to  365days)  or  permanent.  Standard  exemption  codes  appear  in  appendix  C.(1)  General  examples  of  medical  exemptions  include  the  following—(a)  Underlying  health  condition  of  the  vaccine  candidate  (for  example,  based  on  immune  competence,  phar-macologic  or  radiation  therapy,  pregnancy  and/or  previous  adverse  response  to  immunization).(b)  Evidence  of  immunity  based  on  serologic  tests,  documented  infection,  or  similar  circumstances.(c)  An  individual’s  clinical  case  is  not  readily  definable.  In  such  cases,  consult  appropriate  medical  specialists,including  specialists  in  immunization  health  care.(2)  Providers  who  are  assessing  medical  exemptions  may  seek  a  second  opinion  from  a  provider  experienced  invaccine  adverse  event  management,  such  as  specialists  in  immunization  health  care  at  a  medical  center,  or  seekadditional  consultation  from  MILVAX.(3)  Annotate  electronic  ITS  and  paper-based  service  treatment  records  with  exemption  codes  denoting  evidence  ofimmunity,  severe  adverse  event  after  immunization  (except  for  the  Medical  Readiness  Reporting  System),  othertemporary  or  permanent  reasons  for  medical  exemption,  and  other  appropriate  categories.(4)  Report  cases  warranting  permanent  medical  exemptions  due  to  a  vaccine  related  adverse  event  to  the  VaccineAdverse Events Reporting System (VAERS) at the Web site at http://www.vaers.hhs.gov and as discussed in paragraph2–10.(5)  Revoke  medical  exemptions  when  they  are  no  longer  clinically  warranted.b.  Administrative  exemptions.  Standard  exemption  codes  appear  in  appendix  C.(1)  Separation  or  retirement.  Within  180  days  before  separation  or  retirement,  Service  personnel  may  be  exemptfrom  deployment  (mobility)  immunizations,  if  one  of  the  following  conditions  are  met:(a)  They  are  not  currently  assigned,  deployed,  or  scheduled  to  perform  duties  in  a  geographical  area  where  animmunization  is  indicated.(b)  The commander has not directed immunization because of overriding mission requirements. Personnel who meetseparation  or  retirement  requirements  and  desire  an  immunization  exemption  must  identify  themselves  to  their  com-mander. The member must have approved retirement or separation orders. Active duty personnel continuing duty in thereserve  component  are  not  exempted  on  this  basis.(2)  Thirty days or fewer of service remaining. Applies to civilian employees and contractor personnel who will leavea  permanent  (other  than  OCONUS  deployments)  assignment  subject  to  immunization  within  30  days  or  fewer.(3)  Religious  exemptions.(a)  Servicemembers.  Immunization  exemptions  for  religious  reasons  may  be  granted  according  to  Service-specificpolicies to accommodate religious beliefs of a Service member. This is a command decision made with medical, judgeadvocate,  and  chaplain  input.1.  Requests  for  religious  exemption  must  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  applicable  policy  and/or  regulation  forthe Servicemember requesting religious accommodation. For the Army, religious accommodation policy is provided inAR  600–20.  For  the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps,  waivers  are  granted  on  a  case-by-case  basis  by  the  Chief,  Bureau  ofMedicine, and Surgery. For the Air Force, permanent exemptions for religious reasons are not granted; the MAJCOMcommander is the designated approval and revocation authority for temporary immunization exemptions. For the CoastGuard,  CG–122  is  the  designated  approval  and  revocation  authority  for  religious  immunization  exemptions.  USCGrequests  must  be  forwarded  through  the  appropriate  chain  to  Commandant  CG–122  via  CG–112.2.  A military physician must counsel the applicant. The physician should ensure that the Servicemember is makingan  informed  decision  and  should  address,  at  a  minimum,  specific  information  about  the  diseases  concerned;  specificvaccine  information  including  product  constituents,  benefits,  and  risks;  and  potential  risks  of  infection  incurred  byunimmunized  individuals.3.  The commander must counsel the individual that noncompliance with immunization requirements may adverselyimpact  deployability,  assignment,  or  international  travel.4.  Per  DODI  1300.17  and  applicable  service  regulations  will  be  provided  whether  Servicemembers  with  pendingactive requests for religious exemption are temporarily deferred from immunizations, pending outcome of their request.5.  Religious  exemptions  may  be  revoked,  in  accordance  with  Service-specific  policies  and  procedures,  if  theindividual  and/or  unit  are  at  imminent  risk  of  exposure  to  a  disease  for  which  an  immunization  is  available.(b)  Civilian  employees.  Civilian  employees  submit  requests  for  immunization  exemption  for  religious  reasons  totheir supervisors. Civilian requests are processed in accordance with Part 1605, Title 29, Code of Federal  Regulationsand  component  policies.(c)  Bargaining  units.  Civilian  personnel  affected  by  this  document  who  are  members  of  bargaining  units  will  be6AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013considered  for  exemption  consistent  with  applicable  personnel  management  policies  and  applicable  labor  relationsobligations.(d)  Other exemption categories. Administrative or medical personnel will appropriately annotate electronic ITS withexemption  codes  denoting  separation,  permanent  change  of  station,  emergency  leave,  missing  or  prisoner  of  war,deceased,  and  other  appropriate  categories.2–7.  Immunization  and  chemoprophylaxis  recordsa.  Electronic  immunization  tracking  systems.(1)  Document  all  immunizations  in  a  DOD  and  USCG-approved  ITS.  Include  date,  immunization  given,  dose,anatomical  location  of  administration,  lot  number,  manufacturer,  Vaccine  Information  Sheet  (VIS)  date,  and  theidentification  of  the  person  administering  the  vaccine.(2)  Electronic  ITS  must—(a)  Comply with the requirements of the National Vaccine Injury Compensation (NVIC) Program as provided in 42USC  300aa-25,  Report  and  Recording  of  Information,  and  42  USC  300aa-26.  NVIC  information  is  outlined  inparagraph  2–7d.(b)  Incorporate  DOD-directed  levels  of  security,  certification,  and  redundancy,  and  the  requirements  of  the  HealthInsurance  Portability  and  Accountability  Act  to  preclude  unauthorized  access  to  personal  medical  information  and  tosurvive  hardware  or  software  malfunction.(c)  Be capable of generating printed reports of immunization status and exemption information on both an individualand  unit  basis.(3)  A  printed  report  from  the  electronic  ITS,  in  CDC  Form  731  (International  Certificate  of  Vaccination  orProphylaxis)  731,  SF  601  (Health  Record-Immunization  Record),  or  DD  Form  2766C  (Adult  Preventive  and  ChronicCare Flowsheet) (Continuation Sheet) format, accompanied by an official clinic stamp and the authorized signature andprinted  name  of  an  authenticating  official,  will  qualify  as  an  official  paper  immunization  record.(4)  A printed report as identified in preceding paragraph 2–7a(3) will suffice as a valid certificate of vaccination forinternational travel (except for yellow fever which is documented on the CDC Form 731) for active duty members  ofthe  Armed  Forces  as  outlined  in  Article  36  (Annex  6)  of  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  International  HealthRegulations.b.  Non-electronic  immunization  and  chemoprophylaxis  records.(1)  Deployment records. Transfer information regarding immunizations and chemoprophylaxis including date, prod-uct  given,  dose,  and  initials  of  person  administering  to  the  deployable  health  record  (DD  Form  2766)  or  comparableapproved form, either by computer-generated report or by hand. Upon return from deployment, transfer entries on thedeployment  record  into  the  appropriate  ITS  or  other  electronic  record  system.(2)  Abbreviations.  Use  abbreviations  for  vaccines  and  their  manufacturers  conforming  to  the  nomenclature  adoptedby  the  CDC  Vaccine  Identification  Standards  Initiative.  When  annotating  the  date  a  vaccine  is  administered,  the  day,month, and year are listed in that order. The day is expressed in Arabic numerals, the month spelled out or abbreviatedusing the first three letters of the word, and the year expressed in Arabic numerals either by four digits or by the  lasttwo  digits  (for  example,  14  June  1994  or  14  Jun  94).(3)  Transcribed  records.  Entries  based  on  prior  official  records  will  include  the  following  statement:  “Transcribedfrom  official  records.”  Alternately,  the  statement  may  cite  the  specific  source  (for  example,  “Transcribed  from  SF601”).  When  entries  are  transcribed  onto  paper  records,  include  the  initials  of  the  transcriber  on  each  entry.(4)  SF  601  (Navy,  Marine  Corps,  and  U.S.  Coast  Guard).  Prepare  SF  601  in  accordance  with  this  directive  andchapter  16  of  NAVMED  P–117.(5)  DD  Form  2766C.  Initiate  DD  Form  2766C  for  all  personnel  at  the  time  of  entry  into  Military  Service.(6)  Paper-based  immunization  and  chemoprophylaxis  records.  Individuals  preparing  paper-based  immunization  andchemoprophylaxis  records  will  ensure  that  paper  records  match  the  electronic  ITS.  If  paper-based  immunization  orchemoprophylaxis  records  are  used,  electronic  ITS  will  be  updated  within  24  hours.(7)  CDC Form 731. Required for yellow fever documentation and or prepared upon request for each member of theArmed  Forces  and  for  nonmilitary  personnel  receiving  immunizations,  including  date,  immunization  given,  dose,  andthe  initials  of  the  person  administering  the  vaccine.  The  form  contains  valid  certificates  of  immunization  for  interna-tional travel and quarantine purposes in accordance with WHO international health regulations. CDC Form 731 remainsin the custody of the individual who is responsible for its safekeeping and for keeping it in his or her possession whentraveling  internationally.  Data  are  entered  by  hand,  rubber  stamp,  or  by  typewriter.(a)  Supply.  CDC  Form  731  is  obtained  through  normal  publication  supply  channels.(b)  Stamps. Use in accordance with instructions received from the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine; theappropriate  surgeon  general;  Chief,  Bureau  of  Medicine  and  Surgery;  or  CG–11.1.  Army.  USAHRC  (AHRC–PDR),  1600  Spear  Head  Division  Avenue,  Fort  Knox,  KY  40122.2.  Navy.  Bureau  of  Medicine  and  Surgery  (BUMED),  Washington,  DC  20372.3.  Air  Force.  HQ  AFPC/DPMDB,  Randolph  AFB,  TX  78148.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201374.  Marine  Corps.  Headquarters,  U.S.  Marine  Corps,  Washington,  DC  20380.5 .   C o a s t   G u a r d .   C o m m a n d a n t ,   C G – 1 1 ,   U S C G   H e a d q u a r t e r s ,   2 1 0 0   S e c o n d   S t r e e t   S W ,   W a s h i n g t o n ,   D C20593–0001.(c)  Written signatures. Written signatures must appear in appropriate spaces on each certificate; signature stamps arenot  valid.c.  Lost  immunization  records.  If  an  individual’s  immunization  records  are  lost,  assume  the  individual  receivedstandard  immunizations  administered  at  entry  into  Military  Service  by  the  individual’s  accession  source  (for  example,enlisted,  Service  academy,  direct  commission)  unless  there  is  an  objective  reason  to  believe  otherwise.  Do  not  repeatsuch  immunizations.  Base  decisions  for  future  immunizations  on  assumed  date  of  last  immunization  (for  example,individual  assumed  to  have  received  tetanus-diphtheria  toxoid  in  July  1995  would  next  be  immunized  in  July  2005).d.  National  Vaccine  Injury  Compensation  Program.(1)  The  statute  42  USC  300aa-1  to  300aa-34  (The  National  Childhood  Vaccine  Injury  Act  of  1986)  and  otherregulations  set  standards  for  certain  immunizations.  These  requirements  apply  to  U.S.  vaccines  as  indicated  by  theCDC after the DHHS Secretary publishes a notice of coverage. Document the patient’s name; identifying number  (forexample,  sponsor’s  SSN);  type  of  vaccine;  date  of  administration;  manufacturer;  lot  number;  and  the  name,  address,and  title  of  person  administering  the  vaccine  in  a  permanent  health  record  or  permanent  office  log  or  file,  in  eitherpaper  or  electronic  format.  The  electronic  immunization  tracking  systems  are  the  primary  method  of  immunizationdocumentation. Other records and management reports may be generated from the electronic immunization database, asdescribed  above.(2)  Personnel  who  administer  any  vaccine  covered  under  the  NVIC  program,  to  either  children  or  adults,  willprovide  a  written  copy  of  the  VIS  to  the  vaccinee  and  allow  sufficient  opportunity  to  read  the  most  recent  VISsprovided by the DHHS and an opportunity to ask questions about the vaccine. Copies of VISs are available through theCDC  Web  site  (http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines).  The  VIS  should  be  supplemented  with  an  oral  explanation  or  videopresentation,  or  in  the  appropriate  language,  when  the  patient  or  guardian  does  not  appear  to  be  literate  in  English.Provide printed copies to any individual who requests one. Translations of VISs into languages other than English areavailable  from  nongovernmental  organizations.(3)  Personnel  who  administer  vaccines  are  not  required  to  obtain  the  signature  of  the  military  member,  patient,  orlegal  representative  acknowledging  receipt  of  a  VIS.  However,  to  create  a  record  that  the  materials  were  provided,health care personnel who administer vaccines will annotate each patient’s health record that the VISs were provided atthe  time  of  immunization.(4)  The statute 42 USC 300aa-1 to 300aa-34 (The National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986), requires that thefollowing  events  be  reported  to  VAERS,  a  public  health  activity  administered  by  the  FDA  and  CDC:(a)  Any event listed in the NVIC program’s vaccine injury table (at http://www.hrsa.gov/vaccinecompensation/table.htm)  occurring  within  the  time  period  specified.(b)  Any  contraindicating  event  listed  in  a  vaccine’s  package  insert  (product  labeling).(5)  The  VAERS  accepts  all  reports  by  any  interested  party  of  real  or  suspected  adverse  events  occurring  after  theadministration  of  any  vaccine.(6)  All  DOD  and  USCG  health  care  beneficiaries  are  eligible  to  file  claims  with  the  NVIC  program,  according  tothe  program’s  procedures.2–8.  Jet-injection  immunization  devicesThese  devices  must  be  used  in  accordance  with  FDA-approved  manufacturer’s  recommendations.  Only  vaccines  withFDA  approval  for  jet  injectors  use  may  be  used  in  these  devices.2–9.  Emergency  response  requirementsa.  Written  plan.  Clinics  or  activities  administering  immunizations  will  develop  and  maintain  a  written  plan  foremergency  response,  including  standing  orders  for  the  management  of  anaphylaxis  and  fainting.b.  Training.  Whenever  vaccines  are  administered,  at  least  one  person  present  must  be  trained  and  current  in  basiccardiopulmonary resuscitation, oropharyngeal airway management, and recognition and initial treatment of anaphylaxiswith  epinephrine.c.  Anaphylaxis management. For the medical management of an anaphylaxis event whenever vaccines are adminis-tered,  the  following  must  be  immediately  accessible  on  scene:  stethoscope,  blood  pressure  cuff  (sphygmomanometer),minimum of three adult doses of epinephrine (1:1000), oral airway, bag valve mask or equipment to administer oxygenby positive pressure, and the equipment and ability to activate an emergency medical system. Other equipment and/ormedications  (for  example,  injectable  antihistamines,  corticosteroids,  vasopressors,  glucagon,  albuterol,  and  IV  fluidswith  administration  sets),  depending  on  the  clinical  setting  and  local  policy,  may  be  included  beyond  the  minimumrequirements  listed  above.d.  Observation.  The  ACIP  general  recommendations  suggest  that  persons  be  observed  for  15  to  20  minutes  after8AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013being  immunized.  Manufacturer’s  guidance  must  be  followed  when  the  manufacturer’s  package  insert  exceeds  thisrequirement.2–10.  Adverse  eventsa.  Describe  in  the  individual’s  health  record  a  detailed  account  of  adverse  events  after  administering  immunizingagents  or  other  medications.  Mandatory  information  consists  of  identification,  lot  number,  and  manufacturer  of  thevaccine or other medication; date of administration; name and location of the medical facility; the type and severity ofthe  event;  treatment  provided;  and  any  exemption  from  additional  doses.  Consultation  through  MILVAX’s  VaccineHealthcare  Centers  network  is  available  24  hours  a  day,  7  days  a  week,  for  providers  who  require  additional  supportfor  clinical  evaluation  of  possible  vaccine  adverse  events.b.  Health  care  providers  will  report  adverse  events  involving  vaccines  via  the  VAERS  Web  site  http://www.vaers.hhs.gov or by faxing or mailing a VAERS–1 form. Obtain VAERS forms and information by calling 1–800–822–7967or  by  accessing  the  VAERS  Web  site.c.  Health  care  providers  will  report  adverse  events  involving  chemoprophylaxis  agents  to  MedWatch  via  the  Website at http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/default.htm or on FDA Form 3500. MedWatch forms and information areavailable  by  calling  1–888–463–6332  or  on  the  MedWatch  Web  site.d.  Reporting  requirements  are  as  follows:(1)  Report  adverse  events  resulting  in  hospitalization,  a  life-threatening  event  (for  example,  anaphylaxis),  time  lostfrom duty more than one duty shift, or an event related to suspected contamination of a vaccine vial. Reports are  alsorequired  for  all  events  listed  on  the  VAERS  Table  of  Reportable  Events  Following  Vaccination  (available  at  http://vaers.hhs.gov/resources/vaersmaterialspublications).(2)  Further, health care providers are encouraged to report other adverse events considered unexpected in nature  orseverity.(3)  Reports  of  mild  expected  reactions  are  not  required  (for  example,  low-grade,  self-limited  fever  of  less  than  24hours duration, temporary local soreness, redness, or minor swelling at the site of immunization), but such reports maybe  submitted  if  the  clinician  or  patient  wishes.e.  Patients may also submit a VAERS or MedWatch report directly. If a patient wishes to submit a VAERS report,health  care  personnel  will  assist  the  patient  in  completing  the  form,  regardless  of  professional  judgment  about  causalassociation  to  immunization.f.  Record  pertinent  information  from  the  recipient’s  health  record  on  the  VAERS  or  MedWatch  report.  Submitcopies  of  the  report  within  7  days  of  adverse  event  recognition  as  follows:(1)  Send  the  original  report  form  to  the  VAERS  or  MedWatch  office.(2)  File a copy of the VAERS or MedWatch report in the patient’s individual health record or annotate the relevantinformation  on  the  report  within  the  health  record.g.  Immediately  notify  USAMMA  or  the  vaccine  manufacturer  if  contamination  or  other  serious  problem  with  avaccine  vial  or  lot  is  suspected.  Suspend  usage,  but  quarantine  and  retain  all  such  opened  or  unopened  vials  or  lotsunder  appropriate  storage  conditions  pending  further  investigation  and  disposition  instructions.h.  An  adverse  reaction  to  a  DOD-directed  immunization  in  Service  personnel  is  a  line-of-duty  condition.(1)  Medical  treatment  facility  (MTF)  commanders  will  provide  full  access  to  reserve  component  (National  Guarda n d   R e s e r v e )   m e m b e r s   f o r   e v a l u a t i o n   a n d   t r e a t m e n t   o f   a d v e r s e   e v e n t s   p o t e n t i a l l y   r e l a t e d   t o   D O D - d i r e c t e dimmunizations.(2)  Reserve  component  (National  Guard  and  Reserve)  unit  commanders  will  inform  their  members  that  they  mayseek medical care for such adverse events, with the unit providing assistance and information related to pay status andcompensation issues. Any necessary documentation, including line-of-duty determinations, will be completed after theReserve component Servicemember is evaluated and, if required, treated. In no case will such evaluation or  treatmentbe denied or delayed pending line-of-duty determination. If additional health care is required after the initial visit and aline-of-duty determination has established a Service connection, a notice of eligibility must be completed in accordancewith  DODD  1241.01.(3)  DOD  will  provide  an  immunization  health  care  capability  to  deliver  medical  specialty  consultation,  casemanagement,  and  clinical  investigation.2–11.  Program  evaluationMTF  facilities  and  commands  storing  service  treatment  records  will  review  immunization  and  chemoprophylaxispractices at least annually to ensure compliance with current standards of care and documentation and as a measure ofmedical readiness and health promotion. Program evaluation includes internal and external assessments of the standardsfor  military  immunization  (see  app  B).  Program  evaluation  is  focused  at  the  clinic  level,  regardless  of  Service,  toinclude both fixed facilities and field units. The Continuous Quality Immunization Improvement Process Tool is one ofseveral  tools  available  to  assist  with  program  evaluation  and  is  described  at  http://www.vaccines.mil/cqiip.  MILVAXAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 20139can  assist  with  guidance  and  implementation  of  the  Continuous  Quality  Immunization  Improvement  Process  Tool.Other  tools  may  be  available  depending  on  the  Service.2–12.  Blood  donationFor timing of immunization with regard to blood donations, clinicians will consider the policies of the Armed ServicesBlood  Program  Office  (http://www.militaryblood.DOD.mil)  and  the  specific  Service  Blood  Program  Offices.  In  somesituations, such as accession sites where blood donations are scheduled, regularly coordinate the administration of livevaccine  immunizations  after  scheduled  blood  donation  activities,  when  possible.Chapter  3Personnel  Subject  to  Immunization3–1.  Military  accessionsa.  Military  accessions.  Accessions  include  Service  personnel  in  enlisted  initial  entry  training,  Reserve  OfficersTraining Corps (ROTC), Officer Candidate School, academy preparatory school, Service academy, Officer  Indoctrina-tion  School,  other  officer  accession  programs,  and  officers  who  are  directly  commissioned.(1)  When  determining  the  immunization  needs  of  accessions,  give  credit  for  immunizations  appropriately  docu-m e n t e d   e a r l i e r   i n   l i f e   ( f o r   e x a m p l e ,   d a t a   f r o m   e l e c t r o n i c   i m m u n i z a t i o n   r e g i s t r i e s   m a i n t a i n e d   b y   S t a t e   h e a l t hdepartments).(2)  Immunize  if  the  primary  series  is  incomplete,  if  a  booster  immunization  is  needed,  or  if  the  Service  personnelhas  no  serologic  or  documented  evidence  of  immunity.  Complete  multiple-dose  immunization  series  according  to  therecommended  schedule  as  soon  as  possible.(3)  Before  immunizing,  conduct  serologic  testing  where  available.  At  a  minimum,  conduct  serologic  testing  forantibodies  for  measles,  rubella,  hepatitis  A,  hepatitis  B,  and  varicella.  Document  medical  exemptions  for  immunity(MI) in Service ITS. Documented medical exemptions for immunity will be accepted as evidence of immunity in lieuof  vaccination.(4)  Except in an outbreak setting or for individual clinical purposes, immunization records will not be screened aftercompletion  of  initial  training  with  regard  to  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  (MMR),  poliovirus,  or  varicella  vaccines.(5)  Document  immunizations  and  immunization  exemption  codes  (medical  or  administrative)  in  a  DOD-approvedService  ITS.b.  Enlisted accessions. Enlisted accessions may be scheduled for immunizations in two or more clusters, as long asall  appropriate  immunizations  are  administered  or  seroimmunity  is  determined.  Pregnancy  screening  or  testing  forfemale  accessions  must  be  verified  prior  to  administration  of  any  live  virus  vaccines.(1)  First  cluster.  The  first  cluster  of  immunizations  is  administered,  if  susceptible,  before  or  at  the  beginning  ofcollective training (initial entry training, basic military training) to protect against pathogens that represent an imminentrisk of contagious disease in settings of close contact: adenovirus; influenza; meningococcal; MMR; tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis;  and  varicella.  Pneumococcal  vaccine  may  be  administered  if  warranted  epidemiologically.  Ensure  live  virusvaccines  are  given  on  the  same  day  or  at  least  28  days  apart  (see  ACIP  guidelines  for  exceptions).(2)  Second  cluster.  The  second  cluster  of  immunizations  may  be  administered,  if  susceptible,  in  the  first  or  secondhalf of basic military training, during advanced individual training, or upon arriving at the first duty station to  protectagainst  travel  and  other  military  risks.  These  immunizations  include  hepatitis  A,  hepatitis  B,  influenza  (if  notadministered  in  first  cluster),  and  poliovirus.  Live  virus  immunizations  follow  at  least  28  days  after  earlier  live  virusimmunizations  (see  ACIP  guidelines  for  exceptions).c.  Reserve  Officers’  Training  Corps  cadets  and  midshipmen.  ROTC  cadets  and  midshipmen  and  similar  officercandidates who are ordered or called to active duty or active duty for training will require immunizations. Cadets andmidshipmen  may  be  scheduled  for  immunizations  in  two  or  more  clusters:(1)  First cluster. Assess immunization or immunity status and administer immunizations, if susceptible, before or atthe  beginning  of  collective  training  to  protect  against  pathogens  that  represent  an  imminent  risk  of  contagious  diseasein  settings  of  close  contact.  These  immunizations  include:  influenza;  meningococcal;  MMR;  tetanus-diphtheria-pertus-sis; and varicella. Ensure live virus vaccines are given on the same day or at least 28 days apart (see ACIP guidelinesfor  exceptions).(2)  Second  cluster.  The  second  cluster  of  immunizations  may  be  administered,  if  susceptible,  in  the  first  or  secondhalf  of  collective  training  to  protect  against  travel  and  other  military  risks.  These  immunizations  include  hepatitis  A,hepatitis B, influenza (if not administered in first cluster), and poliovirus. Live virus immunizations follow at least 28days  after  earlier  live  virus  immunizations  (see  ACIP  guidelines  for  exceptions).  ROTC  cadets  or  midshipmen  whotravel  overseas  as  part  of  their  training  will  receive  immunizations  according  to  geographic  risk  assessments.d.  Service academy cadets and midshipmen. Service academy cadets and midshipmen will require immunizations asfollows:10AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013(1)  First cluster. Assess immunization or immunity status and administer immunizations, if susceptible, before or atthe  beginning  of  collective  training  to  protect  against  pathogens  that  represent  an  imminent  risk  of  contagious  diseasein  settings  of  close  contact.  These  immunizations  include:  influenza,  meningococcal,  MMR,  tetanus-diphtheria-pertus-sis, and varicella. Ensure live virus vaccines are given on the same day or at least 28 days apart (see ACIP guidelinesfor  exceptions).(2)  Second  cluster.  The  second  cluster  of  immunizations  may  be  administered,  if  susceptible,  in  the  first  or  secondhalf  of  collective  training  to  protect  against  travel  and  other  military  risks.  These  immunizations  include  hepatitis  A,hepatitis B, influenza (if not administered in first cluster), and poliovirus. Live virus immunizations follow at least 28days  after  earlier  live  virus  immunizations  (see  ACIP  guidelines  for  exceptions).  Cadets  and  midshipmen  who  traveloverseas  as  part  of  their  training  will  receive  immunizations  according  to  geographic  risk  assessments.e.  Entry-level  officers.  Upon  accession,  screen  commissioned  and  warrant  officers  for  immunization  or  immunitystatus  and  vaccinate  as  required.3–2.  Military  personnela.  Active  duty  personnel.  Immunize  active  duty  personnel  in  accordance  with  appendix  D  or  as  supplemented  inofficial  notices  posted  at  the  Military  Vaccine  Office  Web  site,  http://www.vaccines.mil.  During  Military  Service,active  duty  personnel  will  receive  or  be  up-to-date  on  adult  routine  immunizations.b.  Reserve component (National Guard and Reserve). Immunize Reserve component Servicemembers in accordancewith  appendix  D  or  as  supplemented  in  Service-specific  policies  and  notices  posted  at  http://www.vaccines.mil.Reserve  component  Servicemembers  receive  the  same  immunizations  as  active  duty  personnel,  but  must  be  in  a  dutystatus  to  receive  required  immunizations.c.  Aviation personnel. Typically, aviation personnel are grounded for 12 hours (Air Force: access to medical care 4hours post vaccination unless operational needs dictate otherwise; Navy: refer to “Aeromedical Reference and  WaiverGuide”  (ARWG)  for  vaccine  specific  information)  after  immunization,  or  as  specified  by  their  flight  surgeon.  Noformal  grounding  documents  are  required  for  uncomplicated  immunization.  Personnel  who  previously  experiencedurticaria,  hypersensitivity  phenomena,  or  other  unusual  phenomena  after  an  immunization  are  restricted  from  flyingduty  for  an  appropriate  interval  (for  example,  72  hours)  as  determined  by  the  flight  surgeon.  Additional  temporarygrounding  may  be  necessary  until  significant  side  effects  resolve.d.  Occupational  risk.  Military  members  at  occupational  risk  for  specific  disease  threats  will  receive  appropriatevaccines per appendix D or as supplemented in Service-specific policies posted at http://www.vaccines.mil. Immunizespecial populations at occupational risk for vaccine-preventable diseases not listed in appendix D per Service, Federal,State,  or  local  occupational  medicine  guidance.e.  Geographic  travel  requirements.(1)  Each  Service’s  preventive  medicine  authority  maintains  current  health  threat  assessments  based  on  diseaseprevalence  in  specific  geographical  regions  using  Federal,  DOD,  USCG,  and  other  relevant  sources  of  information.These  assessments  are  disseminated  to  units  within  their  respective  jurisdictions.  Special  Operations  may  determineadditional  area-specific  immunization  requirements.(2)  Installations  and  deployed  units  report  disease  occurrence  through  appropriate  unit  and/or  medical  lines  ofcommunication.(3)  Combatant  commanders,  in  coordination  with  the  appropriate  surgeons  general  or  CG–11,  establish  specificimmunization requirements based on a disease threat assessment. These requirements may differ from standard Serviceimmunization policies for personnel entering their area of responsibility to participate in exercises or other operationalmissions.  Immunize  personnel  on  official  deployment  or  travel  orders  in  accordance  with  the  specific  guidanceestablished  by  the  combatant  commander  before  departure.(4)  For  short  notice  travel  or  deployments  requiring  vaccines  given  in  a  multi-dose  series,  administer  the  first  doseof  the  basic  series.  Administer  as  many  of  the  subsequent  doses  as  time  permits.  Completion  before  departure  is  thegoal.  If  the  series  cannot  be  completed  before  departure,  complete  it  upon  arrival.  Inform  the  patient  that  in  order  toobtain  optimal  immunity,  the  series  must  be  completed  by  receiving  all  the  required  doses  at  the  recommendedintervals.(5)  For quarantine, entry, and reentry requirements, follow the provisions of the CDC, Division of Global Migrationand Quarantine regulations concerning entry or reentry of military and nonmilitary personnel into the United States orits  commonwealths,  territories,  and  possessions.f.  Other uniformed Service personnel. Members of other uniformed Services are authorized immunizations accordingto  their  occupation,  official  duties,  travel  plans,  health  status,  or  other  relevant  factors.3–3.  Certain  civilian  employeesa.  Federal  civilian  employees.(1)  General.  Federal  civilian  employees  will  receive  country-specific  immunizations  without  charge  at  militaryactivities  upon  presentation  of  official  orders  or  authorization.  Area  preventive  medicine  authorities  are  consulted  forrecommendations applicable to specific areas. People declining immunizations required for entry into foreign countriesAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201311are  referred  to  the  appropriate  authority  for  counseling.  Document  counseling  in  the  health  record  and  note  thatomission  of  certain  immunizations  may  have  consequences  under  host  country  policies,  which  could  include  compul-sory  immunization,  detention,  quarantine,  or  denial  of  entry.(2)  Civilian  employees  at  occupational  risk  for  vaccine-preventable  disease.  Federal  civilian  employees  who  are  atrisk  of  exposure  to  an  infectious  disease  associated  with  their  occupation  may  receive  appropriate  immunizations,without charge, at military activities. Administer immunizations upon recommendation of the responsible occupationalmedicine  authority.(3)  Civilian  health  care  employees.  Susceptible  or  occupationally  exposed  health  care  employees  (including  volun-teers)  who  are  at  risk  of  exposure  to  an  infectious  disease  (for  example,  influenza)  associated  with  their  occupationmay  receive  appropriate  immunizations,  without  charge,  at  military  activities.  This  policy  applies  to  all  health  caresettings, regardless of age or sex of the health care employee. Employees, including volunteers, who have contact withor  potential  exposure  to  human  blood  or  blood  products  (whether  from  patient  care,  laboratory,  or  other  health  caresettings)  are  provided  hepatitis  B  virus  vaccine  in  accordance  with  the  local  bloodborne  pathogen  exposure-controlplan.  Refer  to  the  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  standards  (29  CFR  1910.1030)  for  additionalinformation.  Immunizations  or  immune  status  may  be  a  condition  of  employment.(4)  Employees  with  potential  occupational  exposure  to  wastewater  or  sewage.  Employees  at  occupational  risk  ofexposure to wastewater or sewage will receive tetanus-diphtheria toxoids (preferably with pertussis vaccine) per ACIPrecommendations.  Other  vaccines  are  not  routinely  required  based  solely  on  occupational  exposure  for  wastewatertreatment  system  workers,  including  sewage  generated  by  medical  facilities.(5)  Individuals  immunized  per  categories  above. Individuals immunized per the civilian personnel categories aboveare  authorized  treatment  and  necessary  medical  care  related  to  adverse  events  after  immunization,  consistent  withapplicable  occupational  health  program  requirements.b.  Civilian  Expeditionary  Workforce.  Civilian  employees  and  others  in  the  Civilian  Expeditionary  Workforce  mayreceive,  without  charge,  appropriate  immunizations  at  military  activities.  In  accordance  with  DODD  1404.10,  compo-nents  should  ensure  emergency-essential  and  non-combat  essential  employees  are  aware  of  potential  deploymentimmunizations  as  a  condition  of  employment.  Components  should  also  ensure  the  employee  completes  and  signs  arecord  of  notification  with  a  signed  DD  Form  2365  (DOD  Civilian  Employee  Overseas  Emergency-Essential  PositionAgreement).  Applicable  vacancy  announcements  and  position  descriptions  will  note  obligations  to  receive  immuniza-tions.  Emergency-essential  and  non-combat  essential  employees  have  the  same  access  as  military  personnel  to  treat-ment and necessary medical care related to adverse events after immunization, consistent with applicable occupationalhealth  program  requirements.c.  Bargaining  units.  For  Federal  employees  in  a  bargaining  unit,  local  management  must  meet  applicable  laborrelations  obligations  before  implementing  any  changes  to  the  bargaining  unit  employees’  conditions  of  employment.Civilian  personnel  advisory  centers  provide  guidance  on  these  matters.d.  Biological  warfare  defense.  Immunization  of  civilian  employees  and  contracted  workers  for  biological  warfaredefense  are  addressed  in  DODI  6205.4.e.  Emergency  situations.  In  emergency  situations,  the  provisions  of  DODD  6200.03  apply.3–4.  Contracted  workersa.  Provide immunizations to contracted workers according to the terms of the contract and as stated in the  contractagreement.  If  the  contract  does  not  provide  for  provision  of  immunizations  by  the  government,  contractors  areresponsible  for  providing  appropriate  immunizations  to  their  employees  For  vaccines  with  limited  distribution  (forexample,  anthrax,  smallpox),  DOD  or  USCG  may  provide  the  immunizations,  regardless  of  the  terms  of  the  contract.The  contractor  is  responsible  for  work-related  illnesses,  injuries,  or  disabilities  under  worker-compensation  programs,supplemented  by  existing  Secretarial  designee  authority.b.  Contracted  health  care  workers  are  eligible  for  immunizations  required  or  offered  to  health  care  employees  andare  provided  as  stated  in  the  contract  agreement.  Contracts  will  include  specifications  describing  immunizationsrequired  of  contracted  health  care  workers.c.  Family  members  of  contracted  workers  in  foreign-duty  settings  under  military  sponsorship  will  receive  country-specific immunizations without charge at military activities upon presentation of official orders or authorization. Peopledeclining immunizations required for entry into foreign countries are referred to the appropriate authority for  counsel-ing.  Document  counseling  in  the  health  record  and  note  that  omission  of  certain  immunizations  may  subject  them  toadverse action according to host country policies, which could include compulsory immunization, detention, quarantine,or  denial  of  entry.3–5.  Department  of  Defense,  U.S.  Coast  Guard  schools,  childcare  centers  and  youth  programsa.  As a condition of employment, schoolteachers, childcare center workers, youth program workers, and volunteersare  administered  appropriate  vaccines  against  communicable  diseases  in  accordance  with  ACIP  adult  immunizationschedule  recommendations,  unless  already  immune,  based  on  seroimmunity,  physician  diagnosed  illness,  or  docu-mented  proof  of  immunization.12AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013b.  Children  attending  DOD  and  USCG-sponsored  primary  and  secondary  schools,  childcare  centers,  or  similarfacilities are required to be up to date on all age appropriate ACIP-recommended vaccines for children unless there  isdocumentation  of  previous  immunization,  religious  exemption,  or  medical  contraindication.  For  foreign-national  chil-dren  outside  the  United  States,  observe  host  country  recommendations  or  requirements.3–6.  Other  populationsa.  Department  of  Defense  and  U.S.  Coast  Guard  beneficiaries.(1)  Family  members  of  military  personnel.  Family  members  receive  immunizations  according  to  current  ACIPrecommendations. In addition, Family members may be subject to Service-specific requirements and recommendationsfor  immunizations  applicable  to  the  country  in  which  they  will  reside  while  accompanying  military  members  undermilitary  sponsorship.(2)  Family  members  or  sponsored  individuals  of  other  Federal  civilian  employees  in  foreign-duty  settings  undermilitary  sponsorship.  These  Family  members  will  receive  country-specific  immunizations  without  charge  at  militaryactivities  upon  presentation  of  official  orders  or  authorization.  People  declining  immunizations  required  for  entry  intoforeign countries are referred to the appropriate authority for counseling. Document counseling in the health record andnote that omission of certain immunizations may have consequences under host country policies, which could includecompulsory  immunization,  detention,  quarantine,  or  denial  of  entry.b.  Foreign  nationals.  Foreign  nationals  who  come  to  the  United  States,  its  territories,  commonwealths,  or  posses-sions  under  Armed  Forces  sponsorship  receive  immunizations  required  for  entry  into  the  United  States  and  by  localjurisdictions.  When  returning  to  their  country  of  origin,  foreign  nationals  receive  immunizations  required  by  interna-tional  health  regulations  or  their  country  of  origin.  These  immunizations  are  administered  without  charge  at  militaryactivities  upon  presentation  of  official  orders  or  authorization.c.  Detainees. The installation or activity commander, upon the recommendation of the appropriate medical authority,will provide immunizations against diseases that may be a significant cause of death or illness among detainees.  Suchimmunizations  are  voluntary  and  are  administered  without  charge  to  the  detainee.  Annotate  all  immunizations  andchemoprophylactic  medications  in  the  detainee’s  health  record.  Before  immunization,  inform  detainees  in  their  ownlanguage  about  the  relative  benefits  and  risks  of  the  specific  immunizations  offered.  Factors  to  consider  in  decidingwhich  immunizations  to  offer  detainees  include  their  likely  preexisting  immunity,  the  anticipated  length  of  detention,seasonal  threat  of  infection,  and  other  risk  factors  related  to  personal  health  status  and  living  conditions.  (Refer  toDODI  2310.08E  for  additional  guidance.)d.  Overseas  commander  authority.  The  overseas  commander,  commanding  officer,  or  officer-in-charge,  upon  therecommendation  of  the  appropriate  medical  authority,  will  provide  immunizations  against  communicable  diseasesjudged  to  be  a  potential  hazard  to  the  health  of  the  command;  such  vaccines  are  administered  without  charge.e.  Other  than  U.S.  Forces.  Immunization  of  other  than  U.S.  Forces  for  biological  warfare  defense  are  addressed  inDODI  6205.4.f.  Emergency  situations.  In  emergency  situations,  the  provisions  of  DODD  6200.03  apply.Chapter  4Specific  Immunization  Requirements  for  Department  of  Defense  and  U.S.  Coast  GuardPersonnel(Also  see  appendix  D  for  a  chart  on  the  required  immunizations  for  military  personnel.)4–1.  Civilian  applicabilityCertain civilian employees may be required to receive immunizations as a condition of their employment or participa-tion in a particular assignment. In such cases, failure to voluntarily receive the immunizations may result in a personnelaction  being  taken  (see  chap  3),  but  in  no  case  will  immunizations  be  involuntarily  administered.4–2.  Adenovirus  types  4  and  7a.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  adenovirus  infection,  an  acute  febrile  respiratory  disease  caused  by  adenovirusserotypes 4 and 7. Direct contact and fecal oral transmission of the virus may result in a respiratory disease infection oroutbreak  of  disease  among  an  unvaccinated  recruit  population.b.  Basic  trainees.  Administer  adenovirus  vaccine  to  military  enlisted  basic  trainees  before  or  at  the  beginning  ofcollective  training  at  the  same  time  the  first  live  virus  vaccines  are  administered.  Routine  administration  in  otherpopulations  is  not  generally  recommended  except  when  directed  by  preventive  medicine  guidance,  based  on  diseaseincidence  and  severity.4–3.  Anthraxa.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  anthrax,  an  acute  infectious  disease  caused  by  the  spore  forming  bacteriumAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201313Bacillus anthracis. Direct exposure to anthrax spores may result in cutaneous, gastrointestinal, or inhalational infection.Bacillus  anthracis  has  been  identified  as  a  potential  biological  warfare  agent.b.  Military and civilian personnel. Administer anthrax vaccine to military personnel and applicable civilians accord-ing  to  DOD  or  USCG  policy  for  the  Anthrax  Vaccine  Immunization  Program  and  Service-specific  implementationplans.  Immunize  personnel  based  on  geographical  areas  at  higher  risk  for  release  of  anthrax  as  a  weapon  or  inoccupational  roles  as  designated  by  the  Services,  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs,  or  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  ofDefense.c.  Occupational risk. Administer anthrax vaccine to at-risk veterinary and laboratory workers and others at occupa-tional  risk  of  exposure.4–4.  Haemophilus  influenzae  serotype  b,  commonly  called  Hiba.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  invasive  Haemophilus  influenza  disease  and  infection  of  many  organ  systemscaused  by  the  bacterium  Haemophilus  influenzae  serotype  b  (Hib).  The  disease  is  transmitted  via  respiratory  droplets.The  most  common  types  of  invasive  Hib  disease  are:  meningitis,  epiglottitis,  pneumonia,  arthritis,  and  cellulitis.b.  Military and civilian personnel. Administer Hib vaccine to those who are immunocompromised, have sickle celldisease,  or  do  not  have  a  spleen  or  a  functioning  spleen.4–5.  Hepatitis  Aa.  Military indication. To prevent hepatitis A, an acute infection of the liver that is acquired by consuming food  orwater contaminated with hepatitis A virus, particularly during deployment or travel to areas with poor food, water, andsewage  sanitation.  It  can  range  in  severity  from  a  mild  illness  lasting  a  few  weeks  to  a  severe  illness  lasting  severalmonths.  Hepatitis  A  infections  occur  worldwide.b.  Basic  trainees  and  other  accessions.  Unless  seroimmune,  administer  hepatitis  A  vaccine  to  trainees  and  acces-sions  during  initial  entry  training.c.  Military and civilian personnel. Unless seroimmune, or evidence of appropriate complete vaccination, administerhepatitis  A  vaccine  to  all  military  personnel,  and  civilian  personnel  when  indicated.d.  Occupational  risk.  Hepatitis  A  vaccine  is  indicated  per  ACIP  guidelines  and  locally  designated  food  handlers.4–6.  Hepatitis  Ba.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  hepatitis  B,  an  acute  or  potentially  chronic  infection  of  the  liver  that  is  acquiredthrough percutaneous, sexual, and other mucosal exposure to blood and body fluids from people infected with hepatitisB  virus.  Chronic  infections  may  result  in  cirrhosis  or  cancer  of  the  liver.  Hepatitis  B  infections  occur  worldwide,  andsome  infected  people  maintain  a  chronic  carrier  state.b.  Basic  trainees  and  other  accessions.  Unless  seroimmune,  administer  hepatitis  B  vaccine  to  basic  trainees  andaccessions  during  initial  entry  training.c.  Military and civilian personnel. Unless seroimmune, or evidence of appropriate complete vaccination, administerhepatitis  B  vaccine  to  all  military  personnel,  and  civilian  personnel,  when  indicated.d.  Occupational  risk.  Administer  hepatitis  B  vaccine  to  susceptible  personnel  who  are  at  risk  of  potential  exposureto  bloodborne  pathogens  per  the  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration  standards  (29  CFR  1910.1030).  Formilitary purposes, this includes occupational specialties involving health care workers, emergency medical technicians,mortuary  affairs  personnel,  search  and  rescue  specialists,  correctional  facility  staff,  and  designated  special  operationsforces.e.  Serologic  testing.  Conduct  serologic  testing  of  health  care  workers  who  have  direct  contact  with  patients  andthose who have potential occupational risk for exposure to bloodborne pathogens 1 to 2 months after completion of thehepatitis  B  vaccine  series  to  determine  serologic  response  according  to  CDC  and  ACIP  recommendations.4–7.  Influenzaa.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  influenza,  an  acute  febrile  respiratory  viral  infection  that  can  cause  epidemicswithin  military  populations,  especially  under  conditions  of  crowding,  such  as  initial  entry  training,  aboard  ships,extended air transport, or deployment settings. Influenza has the potential for widespread transmission through person-to-person  contact  and  fomites.b.  Military  personnel.  Administer  influenza  vaccine(s)  annually  or  as  indicated  to  all  active  duty,  Reserve,  andNational  Guard  personnel.c.  Occupational  risk.  Administer  influenza  vaccine(s)  annually  or  as  indicated  to  personnel  who  work  or  volunteerin  DOD  MTFs.4–8.  Japanese  encephalitisa.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  Japanese  encephalitis,  a  mosquito-borne  viral  disease,  during  deployments  andtravel to endemic areas in Eastern Asia and certain western Pacific Islands. Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) can cause14AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013an  acute  infection  of  the  brain,  spinal  cord,  and  meninges  with  high  rates  of  complications,  chronic  disability,  anddeath.b.  Military  and  civilian  personnel.  Administer  the  JEV  vaccine  to  military  personnel  and  civilian  personnel  whohave  a  substantial  risk  of  exposure  to  the  virus  based  on  their  geographic  location.c.  Temporary flying restrictions. Impose temporary flying restrictions post-JEV immunization for aircrew personnelper  Service-specific  policy.4–9.  Measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  (MMR)a.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  MMR,  primarily  by  boosting  immunity  acquired  from  childhood  immunization.These  three  acute  viral  infections  are  spread  by  the  respiratory  route  or  person-to-person  contact.  In  military  traineepopulations,  each  can  cause  disease  outbreaks.  Rubella  usually  causes  a  mild  infection,  but  infection  during  the  firsttrimester of pregnancy puts the fetus at high risk of congenital rubella syndrome and birth defects. Young adults mayexperience  more  severe  complications  from  mumps  infection.  All  three  diseases  occur  worldwide,  primarily  amongchildren.b.  Basic trainees and other accessions. Unless seroimmune to both measles and rubella, administer MMR vaccine tosusceptible  basic  trainees  and  accessions  within  the  first  2  weeks  of  training.c.  Military and civilian personnel. Presume immunity through infection for persons born in 1957 or earlier. Ensurepersonnel  born  after  1957  have  received  two  lifetime  doses  of  MMR  vaccine  or  have  positive  serologic  test  results.Immunity  against  mumps  is  not  necessary  as  a  military  requirement,  but  may  be  appropriate  in  exceptional  clinicalcircumstances  such  as  outbreaks.d.  Occupational  risk.  Ensure  health  care  workers  have  received  two  documented  doses  of  MMR  vaccine  or  havepositive  serologic  test  results.4–10.  Meningococcala.  Military indication. To prevent meningococcal disease or meningitis and other systemic infections caused by thebacteria  Neisseria  meningitidis  serogroups  A,  C,  W–135,  and  Y.  No  vaccine  against  serogroup  B  meningococcus,another  common  pathogen,  is  currently  licensed  in  the  United  States.  Basic  trainees  and  other  military  populationsliving in crowded conditions are at an increased risk for meningococcal infection. Historically, outbreaks have occurredin  training  populations.  Meningococcal  vaccine  may  be  indicated  for  deployment  and  travel  to  areas  with  highlyendemic  meningococcal  disease.b.  Basic trainees and other accessions. Administer meningococcal vaccine to basic trainees, cadets, and midshipmenat  Service  academies  within  the  first  2  weeks  of  training,  if  no  evidence  of  vaccination  within  the  last  5  years.c.  Military and civilian personnel. Administer meningococcal vaccine to personnel traveling to countries in which N.meningitidis is hyperendemic or epidemic and other countries as required by DOD and USCG policy or recommendedby  the  CDC.d.  Alert personnel. Administer meningococcal vaccine to personnel who are designated to deploy within 10 days ofnotification.e.  Other personnel. Administer one dose of meningococcal vaccine to persons who do not have spleens or functionalspleens.4–11.  PertussisTetanus,  diphtheria,  and  pertussis  guidance  is  in  paragraph  4–16.4–12.  Pneumococcala.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  pneumococcal  disease  due  to  Streptococcus  pneumoniae  in  personnel  who  fallinto a high-risk category due to age or underlying health conditions (for example, persons who smoke, have asthma, orhave no spleen) or who are in high-risk situations, such as certain training populations. Streptococcus pneumoniae mayresult  in  pneumonia,  bacteremia,  and  meningitis.b.  Basic  trainees  and  other  accessions.  Routine  administration  of  vaccine  is  not  generally  practiced,  but  may  bedirected  by  preventive  medicine  guidance,  based  on  disease  incidence  and  severity.c.  Military  personnel.  Administer  pneumococcal  vaccine  to  military  personnel  who  are  in  a  high-risk  category  perACIP  recommendations.  Administer  a  second  dose  to  persons  without  spleens  or  severely  immunocompromised  fiveyears  after  the  initial  dose.4–13.  Poliomyelitisa.  Military indication. To prevent poliomyelitis, a viral infection that affects the central nervous system resulting inparalytic symptoms, primarily by boosting immunity acquired from childhood immunization. Poliomyelitis is acquiredby person-to-person transmission through the fecal-oral route. Military and civilian personnel deploying or traveling toareas with poor sanitation are at increased risk, although international immunization efforts have decreased poliomyeli-tis  incidence  worldwide.  Only  inactivated  poliovirus  vaccine  (IPV)  is  available  in  the  US.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201315b.  Basic  trainees  and  other  accessions.  Administer  a  single  booster  dose  of  IPV  to  basic  trainees  and  accessions.Personnel  who  have  not  received  the  primary  series  must  complete  the  series  using  IPV.  Unless  there  is  reason  tosuspect  otherwise  (for  example,  childhood  spent  in  a  developing  country,  childhood  immunizations  not  administered),receipt  of  the  primary  series  of  IPV  may  be  assumed.c.  Military  personnel.  Because  of  the  high  level  of  childhood  immunization  against  this  disease,  do  not  screenimmunization  records  with  regard  to  poliovirus  immunity  after  completion  of  initial  entry  training  except  in  anoutbreak  setting  or  for  individual  clinical  purposes.4–14.  Rabiesa.  Military indication. To prevent rabies, a life threatening viral disease caused by exposure to the saliva of animalsor  humans  infected  with  the  rabies  virus,  which  includes  bites.(1)  Pre-exposure prophylactic immunization. A pre-exposure immunization series may be indicated for people  withpotential  occupational  risk  of  exposure  to  rabid  animals,  or  for  forces  assigned  to  locations  where  access  to  definitivecare likely exceeds 24 hours. Pre-exposure prophylaxis should not be considered sufficient for the prevention of rabies;however,  it  reduces  the  need  for  human  rabies  immune  globulin-better  known  as  HRIG-and  reduces  the  number  ofshots  required  for  post-exposure  prophylaxis.(2)  Post-exposure  prophylaxis.  Consult  with  a  preventive  medicine  physician  and  veterinarian  for  guidance  and  toreport  the  animal  exposure.  Post-exposure  treatment  includes  immediate  wound  care,  and  may  include  the  post-exposure  vaccine  series,  and  human  rabies  immune  globulin  in  an  unvaccinated  patient.  Post-exposure  prophylaxis  issafe  and  effective.b.  Military  personnel.  Administer  pre-exposure  rabies  vaccine  series  to  special  operations  personnel,  includingdesignated special operations enablers and the occupational risk groups listed below, in accordance with Service policy.c.  Occupational  risk.  Administer  pre-exposure  rabies  vaccine  series  to  veterinary  workers,  animal  handlers,  certainlaboratory  workers,  and  personnel  who  have  animal  control  duties  and  personnel  assigned  long-term  to  regions  withendemic  rabies.  Give  booster  doses  every  2  years  or  when  antibody  concentrations  indicate.4–15.  Smallpoxa.  Military indication. To prevent smallpox disease due to the deliberate release or spread of the smallpox virus. In1980,  the  WHO  declared  the  global  eradication  of  naturally  occurring  smallpox.  Nonetheless,  stocks  of  variola  virus,the  causative  agent  of  smallpox,  could  be  used  as  a  biological  warfare  agent.b.  Military and civilian personnel. Vaccinate designated military and civilian personnel according to DOD and otherdesigned personnel in accordance with USCG policy and Service-specific implementation plans. These include militarypersonnel  and  applicable  civilians  who  are  smallpox  epidemic  response  team  members,  assigned  to  medical  teams  athospitals  and  clinics,  or  assigned  to  designated  forces  that  constitute  mission-critical  capabilities.  Immunize  personnelbased  on  geographical  areas  at  higher  risk  for  release  of  smallpox  as  a  weapon  or  in  occupational  roles  as  designatedby  the  Services,  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs,  or  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense.c.  Training and education. Before administering smallpox vaccine to military or civilian personnel who are eligibleto receive smallpox vaccine, provide education on the criteria for exemption from immunization, expected response atthe  vaccination  site,  vaccination-site  care,  risks  of  spreading  vaccinia  to  close  contacts,  adverse  events  followingimmunizations  (AEFI)  such  as  myopericarditis,  and  other  relevant  topics  per  Service  implementation  plans.d.  Screening.  Use  the  DOD-specific  screening  form  posted  at  http://www.vaccines.mil  to  identify  persons  withpersonal  or  household  contraindications  to  smallpox  vaccination  (for  example  heart  conditions,  immunosuppressedconditions,  pregnancy,  skin  conditions  such  as  eczema  and  atopic  dermatitis).  Screening  will  include  assessingpregnancy  status  and  recency  of  testing  for  human  immunodeficiency  virus  infection.  In  the  event  of  a  smallpoxoutbreak,  “permanent”  exemptions  may  be  rescinded  according  to  individual  risk  of  exposure  to  variola  virus.e.  Vaccination. Internal MTF and command clinical quality management programs will have mechanisms to confirmthat  vaccinators  demonstrate  proper  vaccination  technique.f.  Post-vaccination  site  care.  Take  appropriate  care  to  prevent  the  spread  of  vaccinia  virus  from  a  vaccinee’svaccination  site.  MTFs  will  monitor  the  vaccination  sites  of  vaccinated  health  care  workers  (for  example,  operatingsite-care  stations),  promote  effective  bandaging,  and  encourage  scrupulous  hand  washing.g.  Post-vaccination evaluation (“take” check). Assessment and documentation of response (a “take”) to vaccinationis  required  for  health  care  workers  and  members  of  smallpox  response  teams  who  would  travel  into  a  smallpoxoutbreak  area.  Evaluate  and  record  the  vaccination  response  of  individuals  receiving  smallpox  vaccine  in  a  DOD  andUSCG-approved  electronic  ITS.4–16.  Tetanus,  diphtheria,  and  pertussisa.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  tetanus,  diphtheria,  and  pertussis,  primarily  by  boosting  immunity  acquired  fromchildhood  immunization.(1)  Tetanus is an acute disease of the nervous system caused by the serotoxin produced by Clostridium tetani.  TheC. tetani spores enter the body through breaks in the skin, and the bacterium then grows at the wound site. A tetanus16AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013infection results in generalized rigidity and convulsive spasms of the skeletal muscles. The C. tetani spores occur in theenvironment  worldwide.(2)  Diphtheria is an acute disease caused by a cytotoxin of the bacteria Corynebacterium diphtheriae. C. diphtheriaeis  transmitted  person-to-person  via  respiratory  droplets  and  direct  contact.  Diphtheria  can  lead  to  airway  obstruction,and more severe complications may result from toxin absorption into organs and tissues. Diphtheria occurs worldwide.(3)  Pertussis is a highly communicable acute respiratory illness caused by the bacteria Bordetella pertussis. Pertussisis  spread  via  direct  contact  with  respiratory  secretions.  Pertussis  occurs  worldwide.b.  Basic  trainees  and  other  accessions.  For  those  individuals  lacking  a  reliable  history  of  prior  immunization,administer one dose of Tetanus-diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine according to ACIP guidelines. Unlessthere  is  reason  to  suspect  otherwise  (for  example,  childhood  spent  in  a  developing  country,  childhood  immunizationsnot  administered),  receipt  of  the  basic  immunizing  series  may  be  assumed.c.  Military  and  civilian  personnel.  Administer  booster  doses  of  Tetanus-diphtheria  (Td)  to  all  personnel  every  10years  following  the  completion  of  the  primary  three-dose  series.  A  one-time  dose  of  Tdap  in  place  of  a  Td  boosterduring  adulthood  is  required,  regardless  of  interval.d.  All personnel. Following ACIP wound-management guidelines for the treatment of contaminated wounds. Tdap ispreferred to Td for adults vaccinated 5 years earlier who require a tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine as part of  woundmanagement  and  who  have  not  previously  received  Tdap.  For  adults  previously  vaccinated  with  Tdap,  Td  should  beused  if  a  tetanus  toxoid-containing  vaccine  is  indicated  for  wound  care.4–17.  Typhoid  fevera.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  typhoid  fever,  a  systemic  bacterial  disease  acquired  by  consuming  food  or  watercontaminated with Salmonella typhi, particularly during deployment or travel to typhoid-endemic areas and other areaswith  poor  sanitation.b.  Military  and  civilian  personnel.  Administer  typhoid  vaccine  before  overseas  deployment  to  typhoid-endemicareas.c.  Alert  personnel. Administer typhoid vaccine to alert personnel, per Service policy, who are prepared for  deploy-ment  to  typhoid-endemic  areas  or  who  have  potential  risks  of  exposure  to  contaminated  local  food  and  drink.Administer booster doses per immunization schedule. For Air Force, only units specifically identified by the MAJCOMsurgeon  require  initial  and  subsequent  immunization  against  typhoid  fever.4–18.  Varicellaa.  Military indication. To prevent varicella (chickenpox), a generally mild and self-limiting viral infection caused bythe varicella zoster virus. Although varicella is a common childhood disease, adults may experience more severe illnessand  have  higher  complication  and  case-fatality  rates.  Adolescents  and  adults  are  at  higher  risk  for  severe  diseasecomplications  such  as  secondary  skin  infections,  neurologic  disease,  and  multi-organ  involvement.  Varicella  zostervirus is transmitted by respiratory secretions, direct contact, and aerosolization of the virus from skin lesions. Militarymembers  at  higher  risk  for  infection  include  basic  trainees,  cadets/midshipmen  at  Service  academies,  officer  trainees,and  special  operations  personnel,  and  others  living  in  military  environments  conducive  to  person-to-person  spread  ofrespiratory  diseases  (for  example,  barracks,  ships).b.  Basic  trainees  and  other  accessions.  Administer  varicella  vaccine  to  susceptible  trainees  and  other  accessionswithin the first 2 weeks of initial entry training. Serologic screening of trainees is the preferred means of determiningthose susceptible to varicella infection and in need of immunization. Identify those people who do not have a personalhistory of varicella disease, documentation of two prior varicella immunizations, or documentation of immunity basedon  serologic  testing  as  susceptible.  Document  positive  results  of  serologic  testing  in  a  DOD-approved  electronic  ITS.Adults  and  adolescents  require  two  doses  of  varicella  vaccine  given  4  to  8  weeks  apart.c.  Health care workers. Administer varicella vaccine to susceptible health care workers. Determine susceptibility asnoted  above  for  trainees,  birth  before  1980  should  not  be  considered  evidence  of  immunity  for  health  care  workers.Routine  post-immunization  testing  for  antibodies  to  varicella  is  not  recommended.d.  Other  susceptible  adults.  Offer  varicella  vaccine  to  other  susceptible  persons,  especially  nonpregnant  women  ofchildbearing  age  and  men  living  in  households  with  young  children.4–19.  Yellow  fevera.  Military  indication.  To  prevent  yellow  fever  disease,  a  viral  infection  that  may  result  in  severe  systemic  diseaseand  organ  failure.  Yellow  fever  infection  is  transmitted  via  the  bite  of  an  infected  mosquito.  Documented  vaccinationstatus must be verified to meet international health requirements during deployment or travel to yellow-fever-endemicareas.  Areas  of  greatest  risk  are  sub-Saharan  Africa  and  tropical  South  America.b.  Military  personnel.  Administer  yellow  fever  vaccine  to  all  Marine  Corps  accessions  and  military  personneltraveling  to  or  transiting  through  yellow-fever-endemic  areas.c.  Alert  personnel.  Administer  yellow  fever  vaccine  to  alert  personnel  prepared  for  deployment  to  yellow-fever-endemic  areas.  Administer  booster  doses  per  immunization  schedule.  For  Air  Force,  only  units  specifically  identifiedAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201317by  the  MAJCOM  surgeon  require  initial  and  subsequent  immunization  against  yellow  fever.  For  Navy,  administer  tothose  assigned  to  units  subject  to  deployment  within  10  days  of  notification  into  land  areas  where  yellow  fever  isendemic.d.  Civilian  and  other  personnel.  Administer  yellow  fever  vaccine  to  personnel  traveling  to,  or  transiting  through,endemic  areas.Chapter  5Chemoprophylaxis5–1.  Generala.  Chemoprophylaxis. This section does not relate to the treatment of diseases but provides a brief review of militaryrelevant diseases and associated chemoprophylaxis guidelines. Chemoprophylaxis is defined here as the administrationof  medication  before,  during,  or  after  possible  exposure  to  an  infectious  agent,  to  prevent  either  infection  or  disease.Most agents used for chemoprophylaxis are not FDA-approved for this indication and thus may not be administered tounits  under  a  force  health  protection  strategy  or  policy;  rather,  these  agents  must  be  prescribed  to  individuals  anddocumented  accordingly  by  an  appropriate  health  care  provider.  Follow  instructions  from  the  relevant  combatantcommand surgeon who will consult with the appropriate preventive medicine authority for the use of chemoprophylac-tic  agents.  Command  medical  officers  will  review  indications  for  use  and  potential  adverse  effects  of  specificchemoprophylactic  medications  before  use.  These  recommendations  for  drugs  or  agents  are  current  as  of  the  date  ofthis publication. Consult current information and guidance for appropriate drugs and dosing regimens (for example theCDC,  the  ACIP,  the  National  Center  for  Medical  Intelligence  (NCMI),  and  the  American  Public  Health  Association’s“Control  of  Communicable  Diseases  Manual”).  The  following  classes  of  chemoprophylaxis  are  not  addressed  in  thispublication:(1)  Chemical  warfare-related  chemoprophylaxis.  Consult  the  current  version  of  “Medical  Management  of  ChemicalCasualties,”  published  by  the  U.S.  Army  Medical  Research  Institute  of  Chemical  Defense.(2)  Medical therapy for tuberculosis infection. Consult publications from CDC, the American Thoracic Society,  theAdvisory  Council  for  the  Elimination  of  Tuberculosis,  and  similar  authorities.(3)  Radiation-related  chemoprophylaxis  (for  example,  potassium  iodide,  granisetron,  or  Prussian  blue).(4)  Other  forms  of  prevention  involving  nonbiological  medications  (for  example,  calcium,  aspirin,  or  vitamins).(5)  Immunotherapy.b.  Packaging. Dispense chemoprophylaxis agents to individuals in child-resistant containers, consistent with 15 USC1471–1476  (The  Poison  Prevention  Packaging  Act),  or  unit-of-use  packaging.  Use  appropriate  packaging  to  keep  themedication  clean  and  dry.c.  Labeling.  Dispense  chemoprophylaxis  agents  to  individuals  in  packages  that  contain  the  name  of  the  product,directions  for  proper  use,  and  the  name  of  the  person  to  whom  the  medication  was  dispensed.5–2.  Anthraxa.  Military  indication.  The  use  of  antibiotics  and  immunoglobulin  following  a  possible  exposure  to  anthrax  islocally-directed  and  is  prescribed  by  preventive  medicine  based  on  risk.  The  use  of  antibiotics  and  immunoglobulinhave  been  shown  to  increase  survival  when  used  after  exposure  to  anthrax  and  before  onset  of  symptoms  (post-exposure  prophylaxis  or  empiric  treatment).b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  Recommended  drugs  include  ciprofloxacin  and  doxycylcine.  Refer  to  Service-specific  poli-cies.  Anthrax  immunoglobulin  is  available  through  the  CDC’s  Emergency  Operation  Center.5–3.  Group  A  streptococcusa.  Military  indication.  Outbreaks  of  group  A  streptococci  can  spread  rapidly  in  groups  in  settings  of  close  contact,such  basic  training  and  contingency  operations.b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  The  primary  drug  used  for  prophylaxis  is  penicillin,  specifically  the  long-acting  injectableform,  penicillin  G  benzathine.  Oral  penicillin  VK  and  azithromycin  have  also  been  used  effectively.  Administerpenicillin  prophylactically,  when  required,  to  terminate  disease  transmission.  Routine  administration  of  penicillin  forprophylaxis  of  basic  trainees  against  group  A  streptococcal  infection  has  been  shown  to  be  effective  at  someinstallations  with  historically  high  incidence  of  disease.  This  practice  should  be  directed  by  local  preventive  medicineauthority.5–4.  Influenzaa.  Military indication. Influenza can be a significant cause of morbidity in a susceptible population and can degrademission  capability.b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  Consider  prophylactic  use  of  antiviral  therapy  if  available  vaccine  does  not  antigenically18AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013match  circulating  strains  or  if  an  outbreak  occurs  early  in  the  season  before  widespread  immunization.  For  additionalguidance,  refer  to  CDC.5–5.  Leptospirosisa.  Military  indication.  Leptospirosis  can  cause  morbidity  in  personnel  exposed  to  contaminated  water  sources.b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  Doxycycline  is  effective  in  preventing  leptospirosis  in  exposed  military  personnel  duringperiods  of  high  risk  of  exposure.  Consult  an  infectious  diseases  or  preventive  medicine  authority  for  proper  use  anddosing.5–6.  Malariaa.  Military indication. Malaria has caused morbidity and mortality in military populations for centuries. It continuesto be one of the most important disease threats to military and civilian personnel deployed to areas where the disease isendemic.b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  The  Services  or  the  combatant  command  surgeon  determine  specific  chemoprophylacticregimens,  typically  with  guidance  from  the  NCMI,  for  the  area  of  operations  based  on  degree  and  length  of  exposureand  the  prevalence  of  drug  resistant  strains  of  plasmodia  in  the  area(s)  of  travel.  Prescribe  anti-malarials  per  packageinsert.  Health  care  providers  will  screen  individuals  for  contraindications  to  specific  malaria  chemoprophylaxis  (forexample  G6PD  deficiency  and  primaquine)  and  determine  the  appropriate  malaria  chemoprophylaxis.  Health  careproviders  must  document  malaria  chemoprophylaxis  prescriptions  in  the  health  record  when  anti-malarial  medicationsare  prescribed.  Include  the  member’s  electronic  medication  profile  (for  example,  Composite  Health  Care  System  II),whenever  possible.5–7.  Meningococcal  diseasea.  Military  indication. Meningococcal disease can result in morbidity and potential mortality in populations  experi-encing crowded conditions. Chemoprophylaxis has been shown to prevent disease when administered post-exposure tosusceptible  people.b.  Chemoprophylaxis. There are several drugs available for prophylaxis of close contacts of meningococcal  diseasecases.  Consult  an  infectious  diseases  or  preventive  medicine  authority  for  determination  of  individuals  to  offerprophylaxis  and  for  assistance  with  drug  selection  and  dosing.5–8.  Plaguea.  Military indication. Plague has been identified as a potential biological warfare agent, especially if aerosolized toc a u s e   p n e u m o n i c   p l a g u e .   T h e r e   i s   n o   l i c e n s e d   v a c c i n e   t h a t   i s   e f f e c t i v e   a g a i n s t   p n e u m o n i c   p l a g u e .   P r o v i d echemoprophylaxis  to  persons  potentially  exposed  to  cases  of  pneumonic  plague.b.  Chemoprophylaxis. Consult an infectious diseases or preventive medicine authority for determination of individu-als  to  offer  prophylaxis  and  for  assistance  with  drug  selection  and  dosing.5–9.  Scrub  typhusa.  Military  indication.  Spread  by  the  bite  of  infective  larval  mites.  Mite  bites  may  be  a  source  of  morbidity  inpopulations  encountering  field  conditions.b.  Chemoprophylaxis. Doxycycline has been shown to be effective in preventing scrub typhus in exposed personnel.Consult  an  infectious  diseases  or  preventive  medicine  authority  for  proper  use  and  dosing.5–10.  Smallpoxa.  Military indication. Various forms of vaccinial infections may develop following receipt of the smallpox vaccine.Chemoprophylaxis  may  be  indicated  to  prevent  morbidity  in  immunized  Servicemembers  or  their  contacts.b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  VIG  and  vaccinia-specific  antivirals  are  available  through  the  DOD.  Contact  MILVAX  torequest  and  coordinate  administration  of  these  chemoprophylactic  agents.5–11.  Traveler’s  diarrheaa.  Military  indication. Diarrhea can cause morbidity in personnel exposed to contaminated food and water sources.b.  Chemoprophylaxis.  Chemoprophylaxis  for  traveler’s  diarrhea  is  only  recommended  on  rare  occasions  wherediarrhea  would  compromise  a  mission.  Prophylactic  antibiotics  may  be  considered  for  short-term  travelers  who  arehigh-risk hosts (such as those who are immunosuppressed) or those taking critical trips during which even a short boutof  diarrhea  could  significantly  impact  the  purpose  of  the  trip.  Instead  of  prophylaxis  travelers,  should  be  prescribedappropriate  medications  and  provided  instructions  for  self-treatment  of  diarrhea.  Consult  an  infectious  diseases  orpreventive  medicine  authority  for  assistance.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201319Chapter  6Biological  Warfare  Defense6–1.  Responsibilitiesa.  The  combatant  commanders,  annually  and  as  required,  provide  the  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  withtheir  assessment  of  the  biological  warfare  threats  to  their  theaters.b.  The  President  of  the  Defense  Health  Board,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretaries  of  the  Military  Departments,annually  and  as  required,  identifies  to  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (Health  Affairs)  (ASD  (HA))  vaccinesavailable  to  protect  against  validated  biological  warfare  threat  agents  and  recommends  appropriate  immunizationprotocols  and/or  chemoprophylaxis.6–2.  ProceduresThe  DOD  Immunization  Program  for  Biological  Warfare  Defense  is  conducted  as  follows:a.  The  combatant  commanders,  annually  and  as  required,  provide  the  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  withtheir  assessment  of  the  biological  warfare  threats  to  their  theater.b.  The  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  in  consultation  with  the  combatant  commanders;  the  chiefs  of  theMilitary  Services;  and  the  Director,  Defense  Intelligence  Agency,  annually  validates  and  prioritizes  the  biologicalwarfare  threats  to  DOD  personnel  and  forwards  the  threat  list  to  the  DOD  Executive  Agent  through  the  ASD  (HA).c.  Within  30  days  of  receiving  the  validated  and  prioritized  biological  warfare  threat  list  from  the  Chairman  of  theJoint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  the  DOD  Executive  Agent,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretaries  of  the  military  departments  andthe President of the Defense Health Board, provides recommendations to the ASD (HA) on vaccines and immunizationprotocols  necessary  to  enhance  protection  against  validated  biological  warfare  threat  agents.d.  Within  30  days  of  receiving  the  coordinated  recommendations  of  the  DOD  Executive  Agent,  the  ASD  (HA)directs  the  Secretaries  of  the  military  departments  to  begin  immunization  of  the  specified  DOD  and  USCG  personnelagainst  specific  biological  warfare  threat  agents.  The  ASD  (HA)  will  coordinate  with  and  obtain  approval  from  theSecretary  or  Deputy  Secretary  of  Defense  before  issuing  the  appropriate  direction.e.  The Secretaries of the military departments will program and budget for required vaccinations, including the costsof  the  biological  warfare  defense  vaccines.Chapter  7Vaccines  and  Other  Products  in  Investigational  New  Drug  Status7–1.  PurposeFor infectious disease threats for which the only available vaccine or chemoprophylaxis product is in an IND status, theIND product must be administered in full accordance with FDA regulations at 21 CFR Parts 50 and 312, as well as 10USC  1107,  Executive  Order  13139,  and  DODD  6200.2.  DOD  may  use  products  that  have  not  been  approved  orlicensed  for  commercial  marketing  as  force  health  protection  measures  in  combat  settings,  other  military  operations,peacekeeping,  or  humanitarian  missions.  DOD  will  provide  comparable  access  to  IND  products  to  military  personnel,civilian  personnel,  contracted  workers,  and  beneficiaries  based  on  the  health  risk  to  the  people  involved.7–2.  General  guidance  on  investigational  new  drug  productsCommanders,  through  the  appropriate  chain,  must  request  approval  from  the  Secretary  of  Defense  to  use  INDs  forforce  health  protection.  If  the  member’s  use  of  an  IND  product  is  voluntary,  the  product  must  be  administered  withdocumented  informed  consent  in  accordance  with  a  protocol  approved  by  the  FDA  for  IND  product  use.  A  vaccine,antibiotic,  or  other  product  in  an  IND  status  may  be  mandatory  for  military  members,  if  the  President  of  the  UnitedStates has approved a waiver of the requirement for informed consent. Under 10 USC 1107, only the President has theauthority to grant a waiver of the requirement that a military member provide prior consent to receive an IND or a drugunapproved  for  its  applied  use  in  connection  with  the  member’s  participation  in  a  particular  military  operation.  ThePresident  must  determine,  in  writing,  that  obtaining  consent  (1)  is  not  feasible,  (2)  is  contrary  to  the  best  interests  ofthe member, or (3) is not in the interests of national security. The requirement for informed consent may not be waivedfor  civilian  personnel,  contracted  workers,  and  beneficiaries.7–3.  Health  recordkeeping  requirements  for  investigational  new  drug  productsAll IND vaccines or chemoprophylaxis products that are administered, whether with the member’s informed consent orwith  an  approved  waiver  of  informed  consent,  must  be  recorded  in  the  individual’s  permanent  health  record  or  DODand  USCG-approved  electronic  ITS.  For  vaccines,  the  documentation  is  the  same  as  that  required  for  other  vaccineswith an annotation “IND” with the vaccine name. This recordkeeping requirement is in addition to any  recordkeeping20AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013requirements  of  the  FDA-approved  IND  protocol.  The  requirement  for  recordkeeping  applies  to  IND  vaccines,antibiotics,  and  other  medications  in  IND  status.7–4.  Information  requirements  for  investigational  new  drug  productsAny  recipient  of  an  IND  vaccine  or  chemoprophylaxis  product  must  receive  the  information  (for  example,  briefing,individual counseling, information statements) required by the FDA-approved IND protocol. Full compliance with thisrequirement  is  extremely  important  whether  the  IND  product  is  voluntary  or  mandatory.7–5.  CoordinationThe Army, as the Executive Agent for the Immunization Program for Biological Warfare Defense, maintains a programoffice  at  the  U.S.  Army  Medical  Materiel  Development  Activity  (USAMMDA)  to  execute  oversight  and  coordinationof  the  use  of  IND  products  for  Force  Health  Protection.Chapter  8Vaccines  and  Other  Products  Used  Under  Emergency  Use  Authorization8–1.  GeneralUnder 21 USC 564 (The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act), some drugs, vaccines, or devices that have not been approvedor licensed by the FDA through the regular drug approval process (or not approved for an intended use) may be  usedas  medical  countermeasures  to  chemical,  biological,  radiological,  and  nuclear  (CBRN)  agents  or  threats,  if  the  FDAgrants an EUA. This EUA authority is an alternative to the otherwise applicable requirement to file an IND applicationand  follow  IND  rules  (see  chap.  7)  to  use  such  unapproved  drugs  as  CBRN  medical  countermeasures.8–2.  CriteriaIn  general,  the  FDA  may  grant  an  EUA  for  up  to  12  months,  with  potential  renewal,  based  on  the  following:a.  The  Secretary  of  Defense  or  designee  has  determined  that  there  is  a  military  emergency  or  significant  potentialfor  a  military  emergency  relating  to  a  particular  CBRN  agent  or  threat.b.  The  Secretary  of  DHHS  declares  an  emergency  based  on  the  Secretary  of  Defense’s  determination.c.  The  Secretary  of  DHHS  determines—(1)  The  vaccine  or  drug  may  be  effective  in  diagnosing,  treating,  or  preventing  the  disease  or  condition.(2)  The  known  and  potential  benefits  of  the  vaccine  or  drug  outweigh  the  known  and  potential  risks.(3)  There  is  no  adequate,  approved,  and  available  alternative  medical  countermeasure.d.  The  duration  of  authorization  corresponds  to  the  duration  of  the  emergency  or  significant  potential  for  anemergency.8–3.  Refusal  optionsThe  FDA  may  decide  that  potential  recipients  of  a  drug  under  an  EUA  should  have  the  option  to  refuse  it.  ThePresident  may  waive  this  option  for  military  personnel.8–4.  Health  recordkeeping  requirements  for  emergency  use  authorization  productsAll EUA vaccines or chemoprophylaxis products that are administered must be recorded in the individual’s permanenthealth  record  and/or  DOD-approved  electronic  ITS.8–5.  Information  requirements  for  emergency  use  authorization  productsAny  recipient  of  an  EUA  vaccine  or  chemoprophylaxis  product  must  receive  the  information  (for  example,  briefing,individual counseling, information statements) required by the FDA-approved EUA. Full compliance with this require-ment  is  critical.8–6.  Department  of  Defense  requests  for  emergency  use  authorizationsRequests  for  possible  EUAs  for  military  purposes  must  be  submitted  to  ASD  (HA)  for  consideration.8–7.  CoordinationThe Army, as the Executive Agent for the Immunization Program for Biological Warfare Defense, maintains a programoffice  at  the  USAMMDA.  This  office  oversees  and  coordinates  EUA  product  use  for  force  health  protection.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201321Appendix  AReferencesSection  IRequired  PublicationsUnless otherwise stated, all publications are available at: http://www.apd.army.mil/. Department of Defense regulationsare  available  at:  http://www.dtic.mil/.DODI  6200.03Public  Health  Emergency  Management  within  the  Department  of  Defense  (Cited  in  paras  3–3d,  3–6f.)DODI  6205.4Immunization  of  Other  Than  U.S.  Forces  (OTUSF)  for  Biological  Warfare  Defense  (Cited  in  paras  3–3e,  3–6f.)Section  IIRelated  PublicationsA  related  publication  is  a  source  of  additional  information.  The  user  does  not  have  to  read  a  related  publication  tounderstand this regulation. Unless otherwise stated, all publications are available at: http://www.apd.army.mil/. Depart-ment of Defense regulations are available at: http://www.dtic.mil/. The U.S. Code and the Code of Federal Regulationsare  available  at:  http://www.gpoaccess.gov/fdsys/.AR  11–2Managers’  Internal  Control  ProgramAR  25–30The  Army  Publishing  ProgramAR  600–20Army  Command  PolicyAFI  48–123Medical  Examination  and  Standards  (Available  at  http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.)Control  of  Communicable  Diseases  ManualCommunicable  disease  control  and  the  international  health  regulations  (Available  at  http://www.apha.org/.)COMDTINST  M6000.1Medical  ManualDODD  1241.01Reserve  Component  Medical  Care  and  Incapacitation  Pay  for  Line  of  Duty  ConditionsDODD  1404.10DOD  Civilian  Expeditionary  WorkforceDODI  6200.02Application  of  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  Rules  to  Department  of  Defense  Force  Health  ProtectionProgramsDODD  6205.02EPolicy  and  Program  for  Immunizations  to  Protect  the  Health  of  Service  Members  and  Military  BeneficiariesDODD  6205.3DOD  Immunization  Program  for  Biological  Warfare  DefenseDODI  1300.17DOD  Accommodation  of  Religious  Practices  Within  the  Military  ServicesDODI  1400.32DOD  Civilian  Work  Force  Contingency  and  Emergency  Planning  Guidelines  and  Procedures22AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013DODI  2310.08EMedical  Program  Support  for  Detainee  OperationsDODI  5010.40Manager’s  Internal  Control  (MCIP)  Program  ProceduresExecutive  Order  13139Improving  Health  Protection  of  Military  Personnel  Participating  in  Particular  Military  Operations  (Available  at  http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/executive-orders/disposition.html/.)NATO  STANAG  2037Vaccination  of  NATO  Forces(Available  at  http://www.nato.int/docu/standard.htm/.)NATO  STANAG  2491NBC/MED  Policy  for  the  Immunization  of  NATO  Personnel  Against  Biological  Warfare  Agents(Available  at  http://www.nato.int/docu/standard.htm/.)NATO  STANAG  3474Temporary Flying Restrictions Due to Exogenous Factors Affecting Aircrew Efficiency (Available at http://www.nato.int/docu/standard.htm/.)10  USC  1107Notice  of  use  of  an  investigational  new  drug  or  a  drug  unapproved  for  its  applied  use15  USC  1471Definitions15  USC  1472Special  packaging  standards15  USC  1473Conventional  packages,  marketing15  USC  1474Regulations  for  special  packing  instructions15  USC  1475Repealed. Section 1205(c), Act of 13 August 1981, Public Law 97–35, Title XII, Volume 95, U.S. Statute at Large, p.716.15  USC  1476Preemption  of  Federal  standards21  USC  360Registration  of  producers  of  drugs  or  devices42  USC  300aaPublic  Health  Service42  USC  300aa–1  to  300aa–34The  National  Childhood  Vaccine  Injury  Act  of  198642  USC  300aa–25Recording  and  Reporting  of  Information21  CFR  312Investigational  New  Drug  Application29  CFR  1605Guidelines  on  Discrimination  Because  of  ReligionAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 20132329  CFR  1910.1030.Blood  borne  pathogensSection  IIIPrescribed  FormsThis  section  contains  no  entries.Section  IVReferenced  FormsExcept where otherwise indicated below, the following forms are available as follows: DA forms are available on  theAPD  Web  site,  at  http://www.apd.army.mil;  DD  forms  are  available  from  the  OSD  Web  site,  at  http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/index.htm;  standard  forms  (SFs)  and  optional  forms  (OFs)  are  available  from  the  GSAWeb  site  (http://www.gsa.gov).DA  Form  11–2Internal  Control  Evaluation  CertificationDA  Form  2028Recommended  Changes  to  Publications  and  Blank  FormsDD  Form  2365DOD  Civilian  Employee  Overseas  Emergency-Essential  Position  AgreementDD  Form  2766Adult  Preventive  and  Chronic  Care  Flowsheet  (Available  through  normal  forms  supply  channel.)DD  Form  2766CAdult Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet (Continuation Sheet) (Available through normal forms supply  channel.)FDA  Form  3500MedWatch:  The  FDA  Safety  Information  and  Adverse  Event  Reporting  System  (Available  at  http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/default.htm).Form  VAERS–1Vaccine  Adverse  Event  Reporting  System  (Available  at  http://vaers.hhs.gov/esub/index)CDC  Form  731International  Certificate  of  Vaccination  (Available  through  normal  forms  supply  channel.  Also  available  at  http://bookstore/gpo.gov,  or  toll  free  at  1-866-512-1800.)  (Marine  Corps  and  Navy  -  S/  N  0108–LF–400–0706.  Availablefrom  the  Navy  Supply  System  and  may  be  requisitioned  per  NAVSUP  P–2002D.)SF  600Medical  Record  -  Chronological  Record  of  Medical  CareSF  601Health  Record  -  Immunization  Record24AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013Appendix  BStandards  for  Military  ImmunizationB–1.  Standard  #1:  immunization  availabilitya.  Ensure  immunizations  are  available  when  required  to  minimize  disruption  of  deployment  or  training  schedules.b.  Ensure  immunizations  are  available  at  convenient  times,  without  unnecessary  barriers  and  are  available  on  awalk-in  basis,  as  staffing  permits.  As  clinically  appropriate,  administer  any  vaccine  doses  required  simultaneously  toavoid  missed  immunization  opportunities.c.  Ensure  immunization  services  are  responsive  to  the  needs  of  beneficiaries.d.  Review  the  vaccination  status  of  all  beneficiaries  at  every  health  care  visit  to  determine  which  vaccines  areindicated.e.  Implement  standing  orders  if  written  orders  are  unavailable.  Standing  orders  must  address  vaccine  dosage  andadministration, contraindications and precautions, and documentation procedures. Ensure standing orders are signed bythe  privileged  physician  who  has  medical  oversight  of  the  clinic.B–2.  Standard  #2:  vaccine  information  and  vaccinee  educationa.  Educate  beneficiaries  about  the  benefits  and  risks  of  vaccination  in  a  culturally  appropriate  manner  and  at  anappropriate  education  level.b.  Prior  to  vaccination,  provide  all  parents/guardians  and  vaccinees  the  most  current  Vaccine  Information  Sheets(VISs) for each vaccine as mandated by Federal law (42 USC 300aa-26). Allow sufficient time to discuss any concernsor questions as noted by the vaccinee. Ensure VISs are accessible and visible in the patient waiting area of the clinic oractivity  that  provides  immunizations.c.  Prior  to  each  vaccination  provide  all  potential  vaccinees  the  opportunity  to  read  the  current  DOD  and/or  FDAmandated vaccine information brochure. Additional education requirements may be required as outlined in vaccinationpolicy.d.  Ensure  immunization  personnel  are  readily  available  to  accurately  answer  patients’  immunization  questions  andconcerns  about  vaccines.  Ensure  personnel  have  ready  access  to  immunization  information  resources.B–3.  Standard  #3:  vaccine  storage  and  handlinga.  Ensure  staff  members  adhere  to  cold-chain  management  principles  during  administration,  transportation,  andstorage. Ensure up-to-date, written cold-chain management protocols are accessible at all locations where vaccines arestored.b.  Implement temperature monitoring processes at any clinic or activity that administers immunizations. All vaccinestorage devices should have a calibrated thermometer and alarm systems that are visually monitored at a minimum  oftwice  a  day.c.  The CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases strongly recommends that providers drawvaccine  only  at  the  time  of  administration  to  ensure  that  the  cold  chain  is  maintained  and  that  vaccine  is  notinappropriately  exposed  to  light.  Do  not  pre-draw  doses;  draw  them  when  they  are  needed.B–4.  Standard  #4:  indications  and  contraindicationsa.  Screen  each  patient  for  allergies,  health  status,  recent  vaccinations,  and  previous  vaccine  adverse  events  beforeimmunization. Provide each patient an opportunity to ask questions about potential contraindications. Refer patients forappropriate  medical  evaluation,  as  needed.b.  Screen  each  patient’s  immunization  record  to  determine  vaccine  needs  or  requirements.c.  Ensure staff members document any contraindication to an immunization in the health record and ITS. Screen allwomen  for  pregnancy  status.B–5.  Standard  #5:  immunization  recordkeepinga.  Record  immunizations  accurately  in  a  DOD  and  USCG-approved  electronic  ITS  according  to  Service-specificpolicy  at  the  time  of  immunization,  or  no  later  than  24  hours  after  administration  of  immunization.  Transcribe  allhistorical  immunizations  into  the  immunization  tracking  system.b.  Recommend  any  clinic  or  activity  that  administers  immunizations  has  one  or  more  mechanisms  for  notifyingpatients when the next dose of an immunization series is needed (a reminder system) or when doses are overdue (recallsystem).  Reminder  and  recall  systems  may  be  automated  or  manual  and  may  include  mailed,  emailed,  or  telephonemessages.c.  Record  all  military  personnel  immunization  information  in  an  electronic  ITS  immunization  record.  All  Servicesmust record military immunization data into an electronic database that communicates with a centralized DOD registry.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201325B–6.  Standard  #6:  immunization  personnel  traininga.  Ensure  all  persons  who  administer  vaccines,  including  immunization  augmentees,  are  appropriately  trained  andwork  within  their  appropriate  scope  of  practice  as  determined  by  Service  policies.b.  Immunization  training  must  meet  a  standard  acceptable  to  the  MTF  commander,  command  surgeon,  or  otherappropriate  medical  authority.  Training  will  include  vaccine  storage  and  handling;  vaccine  characteristics;  recom-mended  vaccine  schedules;  patient  screening;  contraindications;  vaccine  administration  techniques;  and  treatment  andreporting  of  adverse  events  to  include  anaphylaxis,  vaccine  benefit  and  risk  communication,  and  documentation  andmanagement.c.  Ensure  personnel  who  administer  vaccines  complete  a  comprehensive  immunization  orientation  and  annualcontinuing education that addresses training standards and competency of vaccine related topics based on an individu-al’s  role  in  administering  and/or  handling  vaccines.  Individuals  who  routinely  administer  vaccines  should  complete  atleast 8 hours of training annually. Training resources include resident courses, self-paced online training programs, andvideo  training  (see  table  B–1).Table  B–1Training  standardsMedical standard or procedureQuality patient care and delivery of immunizationsProperly trained in accordance with DOD, Service, USCG, andCenters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelinesand  act  within  their  scope  of  practice  as  determined  by  eachService.Physicians  andmedical directorsImmunizersChapter and appendixparagraph locationsB1, A2B, A1–4c(1)Understands  standing  order  procedures  for  administering  im-munizations  including  dose,  route,  time  indication,  contrain-dications, and so forth.B, ADemonstrates  the  ability  and  knowledge  to  screen  individualsfor contraindications, hypersensitivities, allergies, and so forth,before administering vaccines.Understands and adheres to immunization dosing and intervalschedules.Understands  how  to  properly  document  exemptions  from  fur-ther  immunization  in  the  ITS  (DD  Form  2766C),  on  the  DDForm  2766  (Adult  Preventive  and  Chronic  Care  Flowsheet),and/or in other relevant paper-based immunization records.Patient information and education before immunizationUnderstands the purpose of and legal requirements for makingVISs available to vaccine recipients.Understands how to document the date of the VIS in the ITSwhen documenting an immunization given.BBBBBVaccine storage and handlingTrained in cold-chain management principles and procedures. B, ADemonstrates  how  to  read  a  vaccine  package  insert  for  stor-age and handling requirements.BUnderstands  proper  reporting  procedures  for  vaccine  storageand handling losses.B, AEmergency care and adverse-event reportingBasic cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the administration ofepinephrine.B, R3Knows  how  to  use  the  emergency  equipment  available  fortreating  an  anaphylactic  reaction.  Ensures  medications  in  kitare not expired.Demonstrates the ability to initiate anaphylactic reaction treat-ments per protocol.Understands the procedure for documenting an adverse eventafter an immunization.BBBB, AB, AB, AB, AB, AB, AB, AB, AB, AB, RB, AB, AB, A2–1b and B–12–1d and B–42–1e and B–62–6, 2–7, and B–42–7d(2) and B–22–7d(3) and B–22–3 and B–32–3 and B–32–3f and B–32–9b and B–62–9c and B–62–9c and B–62–10d and B–726AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013Table  B–1Training  standards—ContinuedKnows  how  to  submit  a  Vaccine  Adverse  Event  ReportingSystem (VAERS) Form 1.Comprehends  DOD’s  Clinical  Guidelines  for  Managing  Ad-verse Events after Immunization.BB, AUnderstands how to handle and administer specific vaccinesB, AB2–10d and B–72–10 and B–7Military and civilian personnel eligible to receive smallpox vac-cine  will  be  educated  before  immunization  regarding  criteriafor  exemption  from  immunization,  expected  response  at  thevaccination  site,  vaccination-site  care,  risks  of  spreading  vac-cinia to close contacts, and other relevant topics.Immunization record keeping (documentation)B, AB, A4–15Trained  to  accurately  document  immunizations,  historical  im-munization data, and medical exception codes in ITS.BB, A2–6a and b, 2–7, and B–5TrainingDemonstrates understanding of and ability to follow this multi-Service  publication  and  other  pertinent  references  such  asDOD, USCG, and CDC guidance in the performance of duties.B, AB, A1–5Notes:1 B=baseline or initial training2 A=annually3 R=as requiredd.  Ensure persons who administer vaccines have ready access to information resources regarding current recommen-dations  for  childhood,  general  adult,  travel,  and  military-specific  immunizations.B–7.  Standard  #7:  adverse  events  after  immunizationa.  Epinephrine (such as auto-injectable epinephrine) must be properly stored and readily available at all vaccinationlocations along with other supplies determined locally to manage adverse events (see para 2–9). Ensure all  immuniza-tion  personnel  are  trained  to  administer  epinephrine.b.  Provide  easy  access  to  telephones  or  radios  to  persons  who  administer  vaccines  for  summoning  emergencymedical personnel. Medical providers document adverse events in the health record at the time of the event or as soonas  possible  thereafter.c.  Report  all  clinically  significant  adverse  events  after  vaccination  to  VAERS.  Provide  staff  members  with  readyaccess  to  reporting  options  for  the  VAERS.d.  Develop  a  quality  improvement  process  to  assure  adverse  events  are  reported  to  VAERS  promptly.B–8.  Standard  #8:  vaccine  advocacy  to  protect  the  military  Familya.  Develop  a  mechanism  at  the  MTF  level  to  determine  the  extent  of  influenza  and  pneumococcal  immunizationcoverage  among  its  high-risk  patients.  Develop  a  plan  to  optimize  vaccination  uptake  and  coverage.b.  Implement a plan to optimize immunization rates among cardiac, pulmonary, diabetic, asplenic, and other patientgroups  at  elevated  risk  of  complications  from  vaccine-preventable  infectious  diseases.c.  Conduct  a  quality  improvement  program  to  optimize  the  performance  in  immunizing  children,  adolescents,  andadults  against  the  preventable  infections  that  most  threaten  them.d.  Ensure  commanders  use  immunization  databases  to  identify  and  resolve  the  vulnerabilities  of  their  units.e.  All health care providers (not just those in any clinic or activity that administers immunizations) should routinelydetermine the immunization status of their patients, offer vaccines to those for whom they are indicated, and maintaincomplete  immunization  records.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201327Appendix  CMedical  and  Administrative  Exemption  CodesThis  appendix  gives  details  about  medical  and  administrative  exemption  codes,  as  well  as  information  on  duration.C–1.  Medical  exemption  codesMedical  exemption  codes  appear  in  table  C–1.Table  C–1Medical  exemption  codesCodeMeaningExplanation of exampleMDMAMIMPMedical, declined Declination  of  optional  vaccines  (not  applicable  to  military  required  vacci-nations).Medical, assumed Prior  immunization  reasonably  inferred  from  individual’s  past  experiences(for  example,  basic  military  training),  but  documentation  missing.  Codeused  to  avoid  superfluous  immunization.  Code  can  be  reversed  upon  fur-ther review.Medical, immuneEvidence  of  immunity  (for  example,  by  serologic  antibody  test  );  docu-mented  previous  infection  (for  example,  chickenpox  infection);  natural  in-fection presumed (for example, measles, if born before 1957).Medical,  perma-nentHIV  infection,  prolonged  or  permanent  immune  suppression,  upper  agelimit,  other  contraindication  determined  by  physician.  Can  be  reversed  ifthe condition changes. For tuberculosis, positive tuberculosis test.MRMedical, reactivePermanent restriction from receiving additional doses of a specific vaccine.Use only after severe reaction after vaccination (for example, anaphylaxis).Report  such  reactions  to  VAERS.  Code  can  be  reversed  if  an  alternateform  of  prophylaxis  is  available.  Do  not  code  mild,  transient  reactions  asMR. code events referred for medical consultation as MT.DurationIndefiniteIndefiniteIndefiniteIndefiniteIndefiniteMSMTMedical, supplyExempt due to lack of vaccine supply.Medical,  tempo-raryPregnancy,  hospitalization,  events  referred  for  medical  consultation,  tem-porary immune suppression, convalescent leave, pending medical evalua-tion board, any temporary contraindication to immunization.Up to 90 daysUp to 365 daysC–2.  Administrative  exemption  codesAdministrative  exemption  codes  appear  in  table  C–2.Table C–2Administrative exemption codesCode MeaningExplanation of exampleADALAdministrative, deceasedIndividual is deceased.Administrative, emergency leaveIndividual is on emergency leave.AM Administrative, missingMissing in action, prisoner of war.APARAdministrative, PCSAdministrative, refusalASAdministrative, separationATAdministrative, temporaryNRNot requiredDurationIndefiniteUp to 30 daysIndefiniteUp to 90 daysUntil resolutionPermanent change of station.Personnel  involved  in  actions  under  the  Uniformed  Code  ofMilitary  Justice,  religious  waiver.  (Indefinite  and  revocable.May be revoked at any time. See paragraph 2–6b(2.Pending discharge, separation (typically within 60 days), andretirement (typically within 180 days).Until 180 daysAbsent without leave, legal action pending (other than codeAR).Until 90 daysIndividuals  who  received  immunization  while  eligible,  sub-sequently changed occupational category and now serve ascivilian employees or contract workers not otherwise requiredto be immunized.Indefinite28AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013Appendix  DImmunizations  for  Military  PersonnelD–1.  Text  citationsParagraphs  4–2  to  4–19  provide  additional  information  on  immunizations  for  military  personnel.D–2.  Required  immunizationsThis  table  provides  a  listing  of  required  immunizations  for  military  personnel.Table  D–1Immunizations  for  military  personnelName of vaccineAdenovirus1ArmyAcc2RiskRiskAcc, Rou3Acc, RouAcc, RouRisk4Acc, RouAcc, RouRiskAnthraxHaemophilus influenzae type bHepatitis AHepatitis BInfluenzaJapanese encephalitisMeasles, mumps, rubellaMeningococcalPneumococcalPoliovirus5RabiesSmallpox (vaccinia)Tetanus-diphtheria  (preferably  withpertussis vaccine)NavyAccRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAir ForceMarine CorpsCoast GuardAccRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAccRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAccRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskRiskRiskRiskRiskRiskRiskRiskRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouTyphoid feverVaricellaYellow feverRiskRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RouAcc, RouRiskRiskRiskRiskAcc, RouAcc, RiskRiskAcc, RouRiskNotes:1 Initial entry and basic training accessions only2 Acc=accessions3 Rou=adult routine4 Risk=special, risk-based, and occupational5 Refer to paragraph 4–13.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201329Appendix  EInternal  Control  Evaluation  ProcessE–1.  FunctionThe  function  covered  by  this  checklist  is  immunization  and  chemoprophylaxis.E–2.  PurposeThe  purpose  of  this  checklist  is  to  assist  in  evaluating  key  management  controls  and  is  not  intended  to  address  allcontrols.  The  evaluation  is  focused  at  the  clinic  level,  regardless  of  Service,  to  include  both  fixed  facilities  (MTFs,TDA units) and TOE field units. The checklist serves as a clinical quality improvement tool and is described at http://www.vaccines.mil/cqiip.E–3.  InstructionsAnswers  must  be  based  on  the  actual  testing  of  key  management  controls  (for  example,  document  analysis,  directobservation,  interviewing,  sampling,  or  simulation).  Answers  that  indicate  deficiencies  must  be  explained  and  correc-tive action indicated in supporting documentation. These key management controls must be formally evaluated at leastonce  every  5  years.  Certification  that  this  evaluation  has  been  conducted  must  be  accomplished  on  DA  Form  11–2–5(Internal  Control  Evaluation  Certification  Statement).E–4.  Test  questionsTest  questions  are  available  directly  via  a  link  at  the  Web  site  address  in  paragraph  E–2,  above.E–5.  SupersessionThis  evaluation  replaces  the  evaluation  for  immunization  and  chemoprophylaxis  previously  published  in  AR  40–562,dated  29  September  2006.30AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013GlossarySection  IAbbreviationsACIPAdvisory  Committee  on  Immunization  PracticesAFIAir  Force  InstructionAFJIAir  Force  Joint  InstructionASD  (HA)Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (Health  Affairs)CBRNchemical,  biological,  radiological,  and  nuclearCDCCenters  for  Disease  Control  and  PreventionCFRCode  of  Federal  RegulationsCG–11Coast  Guard,  Director,  Health,  Safety,  and  Work-LifeCOMDTINSTCommandant  InstructionsDCJIdisposable-cartridge  jet  injectorsDDDepartment  of  Defense  FormDHHSDepartment  of  Health  and  Human  ServicesDODDDepartment  of  Defense  DirectiveDODIDepartment  of  Defense  InstructionEUAemergency  use  authorizationFDAFood  and  Drug  AdministrationG6PDglucose-6-phosphate  dehydrogenaseHibHaemophilus  influenzae  type  bHQheadquartersAR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201331HQDAHeadquarters,  Department  of  the  ArmyINDinvestigational  new  drugIPVinactivated  poliovirus  vaccineITSimmunization  tracking  systemsJTF  CapMedJoint  Task  Force  -  National  Capital  Region/MedicalJEVJapanese-encephalitis  vaccineMAJCOMmajor  command  (Air  Force)MILVAXMilitary  Vaccine  OfficeMMRmeasles,  mumps,  rubellaMTFmedical  treatment  facilityNCVIANational  Childhood  Vaccine  Injury  ActNVICNational  Vaccine  Injury  Compensation  (Program)OTUSFother  than  U.S.  ForcesRCreserve  componentROTCReserve  Officers’  Training  CorpsSFStandard  FormSOPstandard  operating  procedureSSNsocial  security  numberSTANAGstandardized  agreementTBtuberculosis32AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013TdTetanus-diphtheriaTdapTetanus-diphtheria  and  acellular  pertussis  (vaccine)USAMMDAU.S.  Army  Medical  Materiel  Development  ActivityUSCUnited  States  CodeUSCGUnited  States  Coast  GuardVAERSVaccine  Adverse  Events  Reporting  SystemVISvaccine  information  statementWHOWorld  Health  OrganizationSection  IITermsThis  section  contains  no  entries.Section  IIISpecial  Abbreviations  and  TermsAccessionThe  attainment  of  rank  or  dignity.Alert  personnelSpecified  forces  maintained  (alert  force)  in  a  special  degree  of  readiness.AntigenA  substance  that,  when  introduced  into  the  body,  stimulates  the  production  of  an  antibody.ContraindicationA  factor  that  renders  the  administration  of  a  drug  or  the  carrying  out  of  a  medical  procedure  inadvisable.HyperendemicEqually  endemic,  at  a  high  level,  in  all  age  groups  of  a  population.Neisseria  meningitidesThe  bacteria  that  is  the  causative  agent  of  cerebrospinal  meningitis.PlasmodiaA genus of apicomplexan protozoa, in the family Plasmodiidae parasitic, in the blood cells of animals and humans; themalarial  parasite.PrimaquineAn  ant  malarial  agent  especially  effective  against  Plasmodium  vivax.SeroimmunityImmunity  conferred  by  administration  of  an  antiserum.AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 201333SerologicThe  scientific  study  of  blood  serum  and  other  bodily  fluids.ToxoidA bacterial toxin (usually an exotoxin) whose toxicity has been weakened or suppressed either by chemical (formalin)or  heat  treatment,  while  other  properties,  typically  immunogenicity,  are  maintained.UrticariaA  skin  condition  characterized  by  intensely  itching  welts  and  caused  by  allergic  reactions.Variola  virusThe  causative  agent  of  smallpox.34AR 40–562/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/AFI 48–110_IP/CG COMDTINST M6230.4G (cid:129) 7 October 2013UNCLASSIFIEDPIN  000011–000