BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-901 19 DECEMBER 2016 Law GIFTS FROM FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  HQ USAF/ JAA  Supersedes:  AFI 51-901, 16 February 2005  Certified by: HQ USAF/JA  (Maj Gen Rockwell) Pages: 11 This  instruction implements  AFPD 51-9, Civil  Law for  Individuals, Title 5 United States Code (U.S.C.) section 7342, and DoD Directive 1005.13,  Gifts from Foreign Governments, February 19, 2002 (including Change 1, December 6, 2002). It provides guidance for accepting or refusing gifts from foreign governments. It prohibits Air Force personnel from accepting certain gifts and directs recipients to report foreign gifts to a designated authority within a specified time. Failure to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this directive in  paragraphs 3.1. and  3.3.  by  military  personnel  is  a  violation  of  Article  92,  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice (UCMJ).    Violations  may  result  in  administrative  disciplinary  action  without  regard  to otherwise  applicable  criminal  or  civil  sanctions  for  violations  of  related  laws.    This  AFI applies to members of the Air Force including U.S. Air Force Reserve and National Guard, Air Force  civilian  employees,  experts  and  consultants  employed  by  the  Air  Force,  and  their dependents.  Violations  of  these  provisions  by  civilian  employees  may  result in administrative  action  being  taken  without  regard  to  other  applicable  criminal  or  civil sanctions for violations of related laws.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  number  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  following  the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1. for a description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier wavier approval authority, or alternately, to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in  accordance  with  (IAW) Air Force 2 AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule.   This AFI may not be supplemented. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    This  revision  raises  the maximum  amount  for  purposes  of  determining  gifts  of  minimal  value  from  $350  to  $375  in accordance with 41 CFR 102-42.10.  It removes the former paragraph 2, gifts not covered by this instruction, to prevent unnecessary confusion.  It also deletes references to evaluations for force protection measures.  Should more detailed guidance from superior publications be forthcoming on  that  topic,  it  will  be  incorporated  in  future  updates.    A  tiering  statement  was  added  in accordance with AFI 33-360, paragraph 1.9, and a sample memorandum to SAF/AA was added as an attachment to this AFI. 1.  Gifts  Covered  By  This  Instruction.  This  instruction  applies  to  gifts  from  foreign governments  to  military  members  and  civilian  employees  of  the  Air  Force  and  to  their dependents, as defined in Attachment 1. 2.  Legal  Basis  For  Regulating  Gifts.  The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  prohibits  any person  holding  any  office  of  profit  or  trust  with  the  U.S.  from  accepting  a  gift  from  foreign personages  or  governments  without  the  consent  of  the  Congress  (U.S.  Constitution,  Article  1, Section  9,  Clause  8).  Congress  has  consented  to  accepting  and  retaining  certain  gifts  from foreign governments (5 U.S.C. Section 7342).  Consult the local staff judge advocate or servicing legal office as to any questions regarding foreign gifts. 3.  Rules for Gift Acceptance. 3.1.  General.  Persons  subject  to  this  instruction  will  not  request,  solicit,  or  otherwise encourage gift offers, will not accept or retain a gift except as permitted by this instruction, and  are  required  to  refuse  acceptance  of  gifts  from  foreign  governments  whenever  it  is possible to do so, unless the gift is of minimal value.  When practical to do so, prior to refusal of  any  gift,  recipients  will  notify  SAF/AA,  who  will  consult  with  the  Department  of  State.   (T-1)  Failure by military members  to obey this paragraph is  a violation of Article 92, UCMJ. 3.2.  Gifts of Minimal Value  . A person may accept, outright and without prior approval, a gift of minimal  value   presented by a foreign  government.   The recipient should always be aware  of  the  circumstances  and  appearances  of  accepting  a  gift,  even  if  it  can  be  accepted outright.    The  recipient  should  keep  a  brief  record  of  the  circumstances  surrounding  the presentation of the gift (date and place of presentation, identity of foreign government, name and  official  position  of  donor,  description  of  gift,  U.S.  retail  value  of  gift,  and  means  by which  value  was  determined).    (T-1)    Once  accepted,  a  gift  of  minimal  value  becomes  the recipient’s personal property. 3.2.1.  A recipient must take all reasonable steps to determine the U.S. retail value of the gift.    (T-1)  The  recipient  may  use  the  price  of  the  same  or  a  substantially  similar  item offered  for  sale  in  a  legitimate  U.S.  retail  market  such  as  in  department  and  specialty stores;  in  a  U.S.  military  exchange;  in  a  U.S.  mail  order  catalog;  a  reputable  Internet seller  (but  not  reseller  of  second-hand  items);  or  by  a  similarly  reliable  method  for AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 3 determining fair market value.  Normally, it is a best practice to derive U.S. retail value from a comparison of three (3) similar items. 3.2.2.  If none of the methods suggested in paragraph 3.2.1. reveals the value of the item or there is genuine doubt as to the actual U.S. retail value, the recipient should obtain an appraisal from a reputable appraiser who can provide a U.S. retail value. 3.3.  Gifts of More Than Minimal Value  . A person subject to this instruction is required to refuse the offer of a gift of more than minimal value from a foreign government whenever it is practical to do so (e.g., intention of the gift is known ahead of receiving it).  However, the gift may not be declined until so advised by the Department of State, via SAF/AA, to ensure that its return will not adversely affect U.S. foreign relations. (T-1)  When a gift of more than minimal value is offered and the Department of State permits, the recipient must advise the donor  that  U.S.  law  prohibits  persons  in  the  service  of  the  U.S.  and  their  dependents  from accepting the gift.  (T-0)  No person may accept or retain a gift from a foreign government except as expressly permitted by this instruction. Failure by military members to obey this paragraph is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ.  A person may accept a gift of more than minimal value under the following circumstances: 3.3.1.  When refusal is likely to offend or embarrass the donor or could adversely affect U.S. foreign relations,  the gift becomes the property of the U.S. upon acceptance by the recipient.  Recipients  must  seek  approval  to  retain  the  gift  for  official  Air  Force  use  or obtain instructions for disposition. (T-1) See paragraph 4 herein. 3.3.2.  When such a gift is in the nature of an educational scholarship, medical treatment, or travel, the recipient may accept travel or expenses for travel, including transportation, and food and lodging, only if that travel meets the following: 3.3.2.1.  Will  take  place  entirely  outside  the  U.S.,  except  when  travel  across  the continental  United  States  (CONUS)  is  necessarily  the  shortest,  least  costly,  or  only route available to the destination. 3.3.2.2.  Is in the best interest of the Air Force and the U.S. government as determined by travel approval authority. 3.3.2.3.  Is proper and consistent with other Air Force directives. 3.3.2.4.  Is approved in advance as provided in paragraph 8 of this instruction. 3.3.2.5.  Does  not  fall  within  the  category  of  travel  expense  governed  by  31  U.S.C. Section 1353, as implemented by  41 CFR Chapter 304. 3.3.2.5.1.  31  U.S.C.  Section  1353  details  the  conditions  under  which  Executive Branch  agencies  may  accept  payments  for  travel-related  expenses  from  a  non-federal  source  (to  include  foreign  governments).  It  is  the  controlling  authority with  respect  to  a  DoD  member’s  or  employee’s  attendance  at  any  meeting  or similar function relating to the official duties of the employee, but which does not include  meetings  or  functions  required  to  carry  out  the  Uniformed  Services’ statutory  and  regulatory  functions  (See  Glossary  of  Terms  in  Attachment  1). Payments from non-federal sources may be accepted only in the manner directed by the statute and its implementing regulations. Members or employees accepting payments  in  violation  of  those  provisions  are  subject  to  civil  penalties. 4 AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 Consequently,  proposed  gifts  or  payments  relating  to  travel  must  be  carefully scrutinized  to  determine  how  they  should  be  processed.  Gift  recipients  should seek assistance from their servicing legal office to ensure proper classification and compliance with applicable directives. 4.  Acceptance  Procedures  for  Gifts  that  Exceed  the  Minimal  Value  .  Gifts  of  more  than minimal  value become property of the United States and must  be deposited with  the Air Force within 60 days for: (1) return to the donor; (2) approval for official use (including display) within the  Air  Force;  or  (3)  for  disposition  by  the  General  Services  Administration  (GSA).  (T-1)  Accordingly, gift recipients must obtain approval from SAF/AA to retain a gift item for official Air  Force  use  (paragraph  4.1)  or  to  obtain  disposition  instructions  (paragraph  4.2.).  (T-1) Recipients must keep the gift at the workplace in a designated area for storage (as determined by individual  offices)  until  SAF/AA  authorization  is  received.    Items  proposed  for  retention  and official display by the Air Force may be displayed pending SAF/AA approval. 4.1.  Request for Retention for Official Use.  Any person, who receives a gift of more than minimal  value  and  who  wishes  to  retain  it  for  official  Air  Force  use,  must  within  60  days from receipt request SAF/AA to  approve its retention by the recipient's organization or any other unit. (T-1) The  request will include the information required by paragraph 4.2 of this instruction  and  will  detail  where  and  how  the  gift  will  be  used.  If  it  is  shown  that  the members of the unit, command, Air Force or the general public will have an opportunity to receive the indirect benefits of the gift, the request is likely to be approved. 4.1.1.  The unit receiving the gift, for which retention is approved, will (T-1): 4.1.1.1.  Place  the  gift  item  on  the  appropriate  equipment  authorization  inventory using the allowance source code established by HQ AF/A4/7. 4.1.1.2.  Place the gift item on the appropriate custodian authorization/custody receipt listing (CA/CRL), with disposition remarks requiring SAF/AA be notified in writing within 30 days after the date official use ends. 4.1.1.3.  When the gift item is no longer displayed or its official use has ended, turn in the gift item to the Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) in sufficient time for LRS to notify SAF/AA within 30 days. 4.1.2.  The LRS will notify SAF/AA in writing of all gift turn-ins within 30 days from the date the official use ended. The notification letter will request disposition instructions and will provide all the information required in paragraph 4.2 of this instruction.  (T-1) 4.2.  Request for Disposition Instructions From SAF/AA.  If the recipient does not wish to retain the gift (i.e., of more than minimal value) or does not receive approval to retain the gift item  for  official  Air  Force  use  after  making  a  retention  request  IAW  paragraph  4.1,  the recipient  will, within 60 days  after  acceptance, send a memorandum  to  SAF/AA (except  as provided in paragraph 8.), requesting instructions as to disposition. (T-1)  Do not forward the gift  to  SAF/AA  unless  directed  to  do  so.  If  not  previously  provided,  include  the  following information: 4.2.1.  Recipient's name, grade, title, organization and place of assignment. 4.2.2.  Detailed gift description and circumstances surrounding presentation. AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 5 4.2.3.  Identity  of  foreign  government  and  full  name,  grade,  title,  or  position  of  the foreign official who presented the gift. 4.2.4.  Date gift was accepted. 4.2.5.  Estimated value of gift at time of acceptance. 4.2.6.  If applicable, a statement by recipient indicating he or she wishes to purchase the gift item if it is subsequently offered for sale by the Air Force or GSA.  Attachment 2 of this instruction provides an example of such a statement. 4.2.7.  If a recipient  wishes to  recommend that the Air Force donate the  gift to  a public agency  or  nonprofit,  tax-exempt  institution  (per  26  U.S.C.  501(c)(3)),  including  a recognized  Private  Organization  (PO)  per  AFI  34-223  having  non-profit,  tax-exempt status,  for  public  display,  reference,  or  use,  the  recipient  must  submit  a  statement including  the  recommended  donee's  name,  mailing  address,  website  address,  and commercial  telephone  number.  Provide  reasons  for  the  recommendation  including  how the  donee  will  use  the  gift,  any  special  significance  of  the  gift  to  the  donee,  and  any conditions  on receipt of the gift.  Selections should  be made based on the criteria listed above and whether the circumstances would cause an impartial observer to question the integrity of Air Force missions or operations. 5.  Action By SAF/AA.  After receiving a request to retain a gift for official use, SAF/AA will: 5.1.  Review and approve a request to keep a gift for official Air Force use if the gift can be properly and beneficially used for official purposes (see paragraph 4.1 of this instruction). 5.2.  If a retention request is disapproved, advise the recipient to return the gift to the donor if this  can  be  done  without  embarrassing  the  donor  and  without  adversely  affecting  foreign relations  of  the  U.S..  Under  these  circumstances,  SAF/AA  will  seek  guidance  from  the Department of State. 5.3.  If the gift retention request is disapproved or the Air Force no longer wishes to keep a gift,  report  the  gift  to  SAF/AA,  as  directed  by  paragraph  4.2  of  this  instruction  and  DoDD 1005.13, Gifts and Decorations from Foreign Governments. 5.4.  Confirm that a commercial appraisal or, in the alternative, a comparable cost of a similar item  from  a  retailer  or  retail  catalog  when  the  recipient  has  expressed  an  interest  in purchasing the gift and the Air Force will no longer retain the gift, has been obtained. 6.  Disposition  of  Gifts  Not  Retained.  When  SAF/AA  disapproves  the  retention  of  a  gift  or when the Air Force or recipient no longer wishes to keep a gift, SAF/AA will: 6.1.  Complete  SF  120,  Report  of  Excess  Personal  Property,  and  send  it  to  GSA,  Property Management Division, Washington DC 20406 (IRCN: 0015-GSA-AN). Attach a copy of any commercial appraisal obtained under paragraph 5.4 of this instruction, as well as any request from the recipient expressing an interest in purchasing the gift or recommending the gift be donated to a public agency or nonprofit institution. 6.2.  If GSA directs that the gift be forwarded to GSA for disposition, SAF/AA will provide forwarding instructions to the recipient. 6.3.  If GSA determines that no federal requirements exist for the gift, offer it for sale to the recipient  if  he  or  she  previously  expressed  interest  in  buying  the  gift.  The  sale  price,  to  be 6 AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 paid  to  GSA,  will  be  the  appraised  value  of  the  gift  plus  the  cost  of  the  appraisal.  If  the recipient declines to purchase the gift, advise the recipient to turn in the gift to the local LRS with forwarding instructions. 6.4.  If  approved  by  GSA,  donate  the  gift  to  a  public  agency  or  nonprofit  tax-exempt institution. 6.5.  Gifts of minimal value or less that are not retained by the recipient may be disposed of or discarded by the recipient. 7.  Disposition  of  Firearms  Received  as  Foreign  Gifts.  SAF/AA  may  approve  retention  of  a firearm received as a foreign gift. Follow the procedures in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this instruction, except as indicated below. 7.1.  Firearms  may  be  sold  to  recipients  only  if  they  certify  that  they  will  comply  or  have complied  with  all  state  and  local  laws  regarding  purchase,  possession  and  transportation  of firearms.  Attachment 2 of this instruction provides an example of such a certification. 7.2.  Firearms  not  retained  by  the  Air  Force,  transferred  to  another  agency,  or  sold  to  a recipient  will  be  destroyed  pursuant  to  41  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  Section  101-42.1102.10. 7.3.  When approved by GSA, SAF/AA may transfer a firearm to any federal agency. 8.  Procedures  For  Accepting  Gifts  of  Medical  Treatment,  Educational  Scholarships,  and Travel or Travel Expenses.  Before accepting offers for gifts of medical treatment, educational scholarships, and travel or travel expenses as defined in paragraph 3.3.2 of this instruction, any person seeking to accept such a gift must request approval from the proper authority in Table 1. (T-1)    Paragraph  8  does  not  apply  to  any  grant  or  other  form  of  assistance  offered  under  the Mutual  Educational  and  Cultural  Exchange  Act  of  1961  (22  U.S.C.  Section  2452)  nor  to  any non-Department of Defense medical treatment received under a "status of forces agreement" or similar agreement providing for the treatment  of  Air Force personnel.  It  also  does not  apply to offers for payment of travel-related expenses from non-federal sources which may be processed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. Section 1353. Procedures governing the acceptance of emergency medical treatment are in paragraph 8.2. 8.1.  Include in the approval request: 8.1.1.  Name, grade, title, organization and place of assignment of the recipient. 8.1.2.  Gift  description,  its  estimated  value,  and  the  circumstances  surrounding  its  offer and justification for acceptance. 8.1.3.  Identity of the foreign government, and name, grade, title or position of the foreign official making the gift offer or presentation. 8.1.4.  Date the gift was offered or accepted. 8.2.  A person may accept a gift of emergency medical treatment from a foreign government without prior approval. However, within 30 days after accepting treatment, the recipient must send the information required in paragraph 8.1 of this instruction to the appropriate approval authority. (T-1) AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 7 8.3.  The approval authority reviews and evaluates a request to ensure that accepting the gift is  proper, consistent with the interests of the  U.S., and not  prohibited by  this instruction or any other law, directive, or policy. 8.4.  The  approval  authority  notifies  the  applicant  of  the  decision  on  the  request.  If  the request is approved, send a copy to SAF/AA. Table 1.  Approval Authorities For Medical, Educational, and Travel Gifts.  R U L E 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 A If the person is B and is C then the approval authority is a member on active duty, an employee, or an expert or consultant assigned or employed in the CONUS the commander of assignment or employment (see note) assigned or employed outside CONUS the commander of the overseas major command (MAJCOM) in which the recipient is located (see note) assigned to or employed by an office in the Air Force Secretariat  SAF/AA assigned to or employed by an Air Staff  office AF/CVA not covered by the above procedures SAF/AA the same approval authority as the sponsor a retired member of the regular Air Force who is entitled to pay a reserve component member not on active duty a dependent of any of the above NOTE:  Commanders may delegate approval authority to their vice commanders or directors of staff. 9.  Reports.  Not later than 15 January annually, SAF/AA will prepare a report listing each gift of more than minimal value that has been sent or reported to SAF/AA during the preceding year. For each gift, report the information required under paragraphs 4 and 8 of this instruction. Also, if possible, give the current  location of the gift or describe its disposition. SAF/AA will obtain SAF/GC review before signing and sending the report to the Secretary of State. The report must reach the Secretary of State no later than 31 January (IRCN: 0216-DOS-AN, Report of Foreign Gifts and Decorations). 8 AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 10.  Information Program.  Each commander will develop an information program designed to familiarize members and employees with the requirements of this instruction. Commanders will also ensure that persons subject to this instruction receive refresher information at least annually thereafter  as  long  as  they  remain  on  active  duty  or  employed  by  the  Air  Force;  however,  an annual reminder is not necessary for people who are not likely to be offered a gift by a foreign government  (commanders  may  include  this  refresher  training  in  ethics  training  for  OGE  Form 278E and OGE Form 450 filers as appropriate).   (T-1) 10.1.  Emphasize the mandatory requirements to: 10.1.1.  Report  every  gift  that  has  more  than  minimal  value  within  60  days  after acceptance. 10.1.2.  Report and account properly for gifts of travel expenses and emergency medical treatment of more than minimal value. 10.1.3.  Dispose of gifts retained for official use after termination within 60 days of such use per GSA guidelines. 10.2.  Use available information programs and resources to inform dependents, retirees, and reserve component members of the Air Force not on active duty. 10.3.  As  appropriate,  present  this  information  at  commanders'  calls,  military  law  seminars, and  newcomer  briefings,  and  publish  it  in  the  base  newspaper,  daily  bulletin,  and  similar online publications. 10.4.  Advise  that  legal  advice  is  available  from  the  Office  of  the  Staff  Judge  Advocate  or servicing legal office on questions relating to statutory or regulatory provisions on gifts from foreign governments. 11.  Additional  Review  for  Civil  Action.  Commanders  will  report  each  violation  of  the mandatory provisions of this instruction through their respective approval authorities (Table 1) to SAF/AA. Send all available evidence, whether or not any other action is taken.  (T-0) 11.1.  SAF/AA will review the case file and refer the case to  The Judge Advocate General, U.S. Air Force, in consultation with the General Counsel, who will decide whether to refer it to the Department of Justice. 11.2.  The Attorney General may bring a civil action in any court of the United States against any person who: 11.2.1.  Knowingly solicits or accepts a gift from a foreign government not consented to by the Congress. 11.2.2.  Fails to deposit or report such a gift as required by this instruction. The court may assess a penalty in any amount, not to exceed the retail value of the gift, plus $5,000.  JEFFREY A. ROCKWELL Major General, USAF Deputy Judge Advocate General AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References United States Constitution, Article I, Section 9, Clause 8 Title 5, United States Code, section 2105 Title 5, United States Code, section 3109 Title 5, United States Code, section 7342 Title 22, United States Code, section 2452 Title 26, United States Code, section 152, 501 Title 31, United States Code, section 1353 41 Code of Federal Regulation, section 101-42.1102.10 41 Code of Federal Regulation, section 102-42.10 41 Code of Federal Regulation, Chapter 304 DoDD 1005.13, Gifts from Foreign Governments, February 19, 2002, Incorporating Change 1, December 6, 2002 AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, November 5, 1993 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management AFI 34-223, Private Organizations Program, 8 March 2007. Adopted Forms AF Form 847 Abbreviations and Acronyms CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CONUS—Continental United States GSA—General Services Administration JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation JTR—Joint Travel Regulation UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice U.S.C—United States Code Terms Decoration—Any order, device, medal, badge, insignia, emblem, or award. 10 AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 Dependent—Spouse (except a legally separated spouse) or dependent (as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, Title 26 U.S.C. section 152) of a member or an employee of the Air Force. This does not include a spouse or dependent who is also an employee or member of the Air Force. Employee—A civilian employee of the Air Force (Title 5 U.S.C. section 2105) or an expert or consultant who is under contract with the Air Force (Title 5 U.S.C. section 3109). Foreign Government—The term includes: 1.   Any  unit  of  a  foreign  governmental  authority,  including  any  foreign  national,  state, local,  or municipal government.  2.   Any international or multinational organization whose membership is composed of any unit of a foreign government.  3.   Any agent or representative of any such unit or organization while acting as such. Gift—Any tangible or intangible present, other than a decoration, tendered by or received from a foreign government. Meeting  or  Similar  Function—(For  travel  payments  covered  under  Title  31  U.S.C.  section 1353)  A  conference,  seminar,  speaking  engagement,  symposium,  training  course,  or  similar event  that  takes  place  away  from  the  member’s  or  employee’s  official  duty  station,  and  is sponsored or cosponsored by a non-federal source. This term does not include a meeting or other event  required  to  carry  out  the  Uniformed  Service’s  statutory  and  regulatory  functions  (i.e.,  a function that is essential to the Uniformed Service’s mission) such as investigations, inspections, audits, site visits, negotiations, or litigation. The term also does not include promotional vendor training  or  other  meetings  held  for  the  primary  purpose  of  marketing  the  non-federal  source’s products or services. A meeting or similar function need not be widely attended for the purpose of this definition and includes, but is not limited to the following: 1.   An  event  at  which  the  member will  participate as  a  speaker  or  panel  participant, including an event at which the member will give an oral presentation focusing on his/ her official duties or on the policies, programs, or operations of the Uniformed Services;  2.   A conference, convention, seminar, symposium or similar event the primary purpose of which is to receive training other than promotional vendor training, or to present or exchange substantive information concerning a subject of mutual interest to a number of parties; or,  3.   An event at which the member will receive an award or honorary degree, which is in recognition of meritorious public service that is related to the member’s official duties, and which may be accepted consistent with the applicable standards of conduct regulation. Member—A  member  of  the  Air  Force  on  active  duty,  a  retired  member  of  the  regular component of the Air Force who is entitled to pay, a member of a reserve component of the Air Force  regardless  of  duty  status,  and  members  of  the  Air  National  Guard  when  federally recognized. Minimal  Value—A gift that has a retail value in the U.S. at the time of acceptance of $375 or less, or such other amount as the Administrator of General Services may prescribe after the date of this instruction. AFI51-901  19 DECEMBER 2016 11 Attachment 2 REQUEST TO PURCHASE FOREIGN GIFT   