 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 52-102  VOLUME 2 23 SEPTEMBER 2015 Chaplain CHAPLAIN ASSISTANT  PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   HQ USAF/HCC  Supersedes:   AFI 52-102 V2,  1 August 2012 Certified by: HQ USAF/HC  (CMSgt Dale W. McGavran) Pages: 13   This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 52-1, Chaplain Corps. It directs the  structure  and  programs  for  Chaplain  Assistant  professional  development  and  describes  the process for vectoring and accessing Chaplain Assistants. This instruction applies to active duty, Air Force Reserve and  Air National  Guard.  Ensure all records created  as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force  Records Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).    Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication,  through  the  functional  chain  of  command,  to AF/HC,  1380  AF  Pentagon,  Rm  4E260,  Washington  DC  20330-1380.    Any  organization  may supplement this volume.  Supplements must be routed to the OPR, usaf.pentagon.af-hc.mbx.af-hcc-workflow@mail.mil for coordination prior to certification and approval.  The authorities to waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not imply endorsement by the Air Force.   2  AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    Major changes  include  reorganization  and  prioritization  of  core  capabilities,  professional/continuing education requirements and the enlisted vectoring/mentoring process. 1.  Overview. 1.1.  Chaplain assistants proudly serve first and foremost as Airmen.  They possess the skills to resource and provide or provide for the spiritual care and the free exercise of religion for Airmen, their families and other authorized personnel.  These skills represent the uniqueness of  the  chaplain  assistant  Air  Force  Specialty  and  distinguish  it  from  those  of  all  other Airmen. 1.2.  As  non-clergy  members  of  the  Air  Force  Chaplain  Corps,  chaplain  assistants  partner with  Air  Force  chaplains  to  form  Religious  Support  Teams  (RSTs).    Chaplain  assistants provide spiritual  care  and facilitate the free exercise of religion  at  home base and deployed locations.    Chaplain  assistants  perform  in  a  manner  respectful  of  a  pluralistic  religious environment and support all faith groups.  Chaplain assistants must perform duties linked to serving the spiritual and religious needs of Airmen.  Leaders must avoid assigning chaplain assistants  to  other  duties  that  may  compromise  privileged  communication  IAW  10  U.S.C. Chapter 47A, Military Rules of Evidence 503 – Communications to Clergy, and the Air Force Chaplain Corps’ capabilities of providing spiritual care and advising leadership. 2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  Air  Force  Chief  of  Chaplains  (AF/HC).  The  Chief  of  Chaplains  develops  and implements  professional  development  policy  for  all  Chaplain  Corps  personnel  under  10 U.S.C. § 8067(h). 2.2.  Chaplain  Assistant  Air  Force  Career  Field  Manager  (AFCFM)  (AF/HCC).  The Chaplain  Assistant  AFCFM  organizes  and  manages  the  chaplain  assistant  career  field  by overseeing all aspects of career field education, training and development.  Additionally, the AFCFM  manages  manpower  and  personnel  actions  to  ensure  the  effective  utilization  of chaplain  assistants.    The  AFCFM  provides  functional  direction  for  the  Chaplain  Corps College  regarding  issues  affecting  the  career  field.    The  AFCFM  also  chairs  the  Chaplain Assistant  Enlisted  Development  Team  (EDT),  Chaplain  Assistant  Functional  Advisory Council,  Chaplain  Assistant  Utilization  and  Training  Workshops  (U&TW)  and  Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT). 2.3.  MAJCOM/DRU/Chaplain  Assistant  Functional  Manager  (MFM/HCC).  MFMs manage the chaplain assistant career field within their MAJCOM/DRU and serve as liaisons to the AFCFM.  MAJCOM/DRU Functional Managers manage command training, utilization and development issues within their MAJCOM/DRU. 2.4.  AFR/NGB CFM.  The AFR and NGB CFMs, in consultation with the AFCFM, manage the  personnel,  health  and  manning  of  the  career  field  within  their  respective  organizations.  They  manage  ARC-specific  training,  utilization  and  development  issues  within  their respective organizations. 2.5.  Air  Force  Installation  and  Mission Support  Center  (AFIMSC)/HC  Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM).  The AFIMSC/HC CEM advises the AFIMSC Chaplain on matters related AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   3  to  the  integrated  personnel,  readiness  and  finance  activities  supporting  the  Air  Force Chaplain Corps. 2.6.  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC)  Chaplain  Assistant  Functional Manager  (AETC/HCC).  The AETC MFM serves as the liaison  between Air Staff, AETC and Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) on manpower and personnel actions affecting AETC formal courses.  In addition, the AETC MFM serves as the Assistant AFCFM. 2.7.  Technical  Training  Office  (ECPD/MSOT).  This office is responsible for the design, development,  and  fielding  of  technical  training  courses  to  fulfill  the  AETC  contractual agreement  with  the  AFCFM  as  documented  in  the  Specialty  Training  Standard  (STS).  ECPD/MSOT coordinates scheduling, normally on a three-year cycle, and hosts U&TWs and STRTs.    ECPD/MSOT  monitors  student  enrollment  and/or  cancellation  from  technical training courses.  Additionally, this office manages Trained Personnel Requirements (TPR), training  management,  training  development,  registrar  functions,  evaluations  and  faculty development programs. (ECPD/HCC).  The  Chief  oversees 2.8.  Chief,  Chaplain  Corps  College the implementation of technical training courses to ensure requirements identified in the STS are met.    Additionally,  he/she  oversees  the  development  of  professional  continuing  education courses as directed by the AFCFM.  In this position, the Chief works with ECPD/MSOT on technical  training  matters  and  works  closely  with  the  Career  Development  Course  (CDC) Writer  and  the  Manager,  Chaplain  Corps  College  Education  Division  to  ensure  cohesive education and training programs. 2.9.  Manager, Chaplain Corps Resource Development Center (AF/HCX).  The manager develops professional resources for the Chaplain Assistant career field.  Additionally, he/she researches  and  recommends  opportunities  that  meet  education  and  training  requirements  to the  AFCFM.    He/she  coordinates  chaplain  assistant  professional  development  requirements with the AFCFM. 2.10.  Manager,  Chaplain  Corps  College  Education  Division  (ECPD/HCP).  The manager  executes  the  education  and  training  mission  for  the  chaplain  assistant  career  field.  Additionally,  he/she  researches  and  recommends  education  and  training  options  to  the AFCFM.  He/she coordinates chaplain assistant professional development requirements with the AFCFM. 2.11.  Career  Development  Course  (CDC)  Writer.  The  CDC  Writer  plans  and  develops CDC program materials that correspond with the Chaplain Assistant Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) and STS.  Additionally, the CDC Writer works closely with the AFCFM and the Chief, Chaplain Corps College to ensure cohesive training programs. 2.12.  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations.  The  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel Operations  is  focused  primarily  on  leadership,  management  and  supervision.  He/she organizes and leads chaplain assistants in the execution of assigned duties utilizing concepts specified in AFI 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure. (T-1) 2.13.  Chaplain  Assistant  Enlisted  Development  Team  (EDT).  This  is  the  primary advisory group to the Chief of Chaplains on all chaplain assistant enlisted development and utilization issues.  The EDT ensures the chaplain assistant career field is postured to facilitate spiritual  care  and  the  free  exercise  of  religion  across  the  full  spectrum  of  the  Air  Force   4  AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 mission.  The  EDT  is  comprised  of  the  AFCFM  (chairperson);  MFMs  (and  DRU equivalents);  Chief,  Chaplain  Corps  College;  and  Chief,  AFIMSC.    Other  non-voting advisors may include HAF Division Managers, Chaplain Corps College Division Managers, CDC Writer and other subject matter experts by invitation. 3.  Core Capabilities. 3.1.  Advising  Leadership.  Chaplain  assistants  must  be  trained  and  qualified  to  provide advice to leaders at all levels on religious accommodation, ethical, moral, morale issues and needs, primarily for, and regarding, the enlisted force. (T-1)  Commanders, command chiefs, group  superintendents,  first  sergeants  and  supervisors  at  all  levels  should  know  the  issues affecting their Airmen and how to best address them.  Chaplain assistants are a trusted source for valid, real-time information. 3.2.  Unit  Engagement.  As part of the RST, chaplain assistants are intentionally integrated into  unit  ministry  and  engagement  plans  as  a  resource  for  meeting  the  spiritual  needs  of Airmen.  Unit engagement is best realized when unit members embrace chaplain assistants as “one of them” through participation in unit meetings, commander calls, training with the unit and other unit activities.  Chaplain assistants will conduct unit engagement jointly with their RST partner(s) or independently. (T-1) 3.3.  Crisis  Intervention  Counseling.  The Chaplain  Corps is  the only function with 100% privileged  communication  (IAW  10  U.S.C.  Chapter  47A,  Military  Rules  of  Evidence,  Rule 503 – Communications to Clergy) and chaplain assistants are commonly the first line of care for Airmen in  need.  Chaplain Assistants will facilitate care  for Airmen  early in  a crisis  by enhancing resiliency, mission readiness and capability.  (T-1)  Crisis intervention counseling is an immediate, interventional approach to providing mental and moral support with the aim of  restoring  the  person  to  the  level  of  function  prior  to  the  crisis.    This  capability  includes counseling  in  moments  of  crisis,  response  to  crises  and  suicide  prevention/intervention.  While every NCO performs counseling (IAW AFPAM 36-2241, Professional  Development Guide, Section 10E), chaplain assistants possess the core capability to care for Airmen at the point  of  crisis.    They  are  specially  trained  to  identify  potential  problems  and  assist individuals  in  finding  the  professional  help  they  need.    Through  crisis  intervention counseling, chaplain assistants mitigate crises such as suicide, grief, traumatic stress or other forms  of  crisis.    Chaplain  assistants  will  not,  at  any  time,  conduct  spiritual  counseling  and will  immediately  refer  people  in  need  of  spiritual  counseling  to  a  chaplain.    Chaplain assistants  may  make  referrals  to  other  agencies  for  issues  not  of  a  spiritual  nature,  as appropriate. 3.4.  Religious  Program  Management.  Chaplain  assistants  will  partner  with  chaplains  to develop,  manage,  execute  and  evaluate to  ensure  mission accomplishment. (T-1) This capability is critical to Airmen and their families in sustainment and contingency environments. religious  programs 3.4.1.  Religious  Observances.    Chaplain  assistants,  in  conjunction  with  other  Chaplain Corps  personnel  (e.g.,  chaplains,  civilian  employees),  resource  and  manage  support  for religious observances to include worship, liturgies, rites and other religious requirements for all faith groups. AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   5  3.4.2.  Resources.    Chaplain  assistants,  in  conjunction  with  other  Chaplain  Corps personnel,  manage  enlisted  manpower  capabilities,  personnel,  volunteers,  appropriated funds, Chapel Tithes and Offerings Funds (CTOF), non-appropriated and/or MWR funds, religious facilities, supplies and equipment. 3.4.3.  Administration.    Chaplain  assistants,  in  conjunction  with  other  Chaplain  Corps personnel, manage Chaplain Corps administration to include records management, forms, publications,  publicity,  professional  correspondence,  security  background  check requirements,  operating  instructions,  suspense  actions  and  other  administrative  needs  of the Chaplain Corps mission. 4.  Retraining. 4.1.  Lateral  Career  Field.  Enlisted  Airmen  are  recruited  and  retrained  from  other  career fields.    Airmen  who  desire  to  serve  in  the  Chaplain  Corps  as  chaplain  assistants  must volunteer  and  fulfill  all  requirements  as  specified  in  the  Enlisted  Classification  Directory (IAW  AFI  36-2101,  Classifying  Military  Personnel,  for  specialty  and  entry  qualifications, and AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program, for additional retraining guidance). 4.2.  Interview Process.  Official retraining guidance is available on the Air Force Chaplain Corps website and the Enlisted Retraining Advisory available on the AFPC website. 4.2.1.  The  local  wing  chaplain  and  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations  will conduct  all  retraining  interviews  and  make  recommendations  to  the  MFM.    (T-1)  The wing  chaplain  and  Superintendent/NCOIC  must  review  Enlisted  Performance  Reports (EPRs),  Physical  Serial  Profile  Reports,  individual  duty  history  RIPs,  talk  to  current supervisors,  and  verify  that  ASVAB  scores  meet  minimum  requirements.    During  the interview, the wing chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC must ensure the applicant fully understands the requirement to be sensitive in providing for the spiritual needs of all faith groups. 4.2.2.  The  MFM  reviews  retraining  packages  and two  actions, RECOMMEND  APPROVAL  or  DISAPPROVE.  In  either  action,  they  will  sign  the retraining  letter  and  forward  to  the  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations  who conducted  the  interview.  The  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations  forwards  the letter to the retraining applicant for processing. takes  one  of 4.3.  Selection to the AFSC. 4.3.1.  Upon selection to the AFSC, members are retrained into the 5R0X1 career field. 4.3.2.  After successful completion of the Chaplain Assistant Apprentice Course, students are awarded the 5R031 skill level, assigned to a wing-level Chaplain Corps program, and enrolled in the 5-level CDC and upgrade training. 4.3.3.  Members possessing a 3-skill level are not assigned to Air Staff, MAJCOM staffs, AFIMSC  staff,  USAF  Chaplain  Corps  special  duty  positions  (including  the  Chaplain Corps College), or to locations with only one chaplain assistant authorization. 5.  Chief  Master  Sergeant  Crossflows  into  5R0.  The  Chief  of  Chaplains  and  the  AFCFM conduct  all  interviews  for  applicants  under  the  CMSgt  crossflow  program.    Upon  acceptance, they are assigned to the Chaplain Corps as MFMs.   6  AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 6.  Professional Development. 6.1.  Career  Field  Education  and  Training  Plan is  a comprehensive  education  and  training  document  that  identifies  life-cycle  education  and training requirements, training support resources and minimum core task requirements for the 5R0  specialty.    This  plan  identifies  the  mandatory  and  optional  skill  level  training  that chaplain assistants can receive during their military careers and provides a clear career path to success in all aspects of career field training. (CFETP).  The  CFETP 6.2.  Formal  Training.  Chaplain  assistants  attend  the  formal  training  courses  that  are identified below.  Course descriptions, content and prerequisites are found in the Education and  Training  Course  Announcements  (https://etca.randolph.af.mil).    Refer  to  the  CFETP for  detailed  requirements  for  skill  level  upgrade.    Formal  training  covers  a  variety  of  tasks listed under specific categories.  (See the Chaplain Assistant 5R0X1 CFETP, Part II, STS, for detailed tasks and references.) 6.2.1.  Chaplain  Assistant  Apprentice  Course.  All  chaplain  assistant  candidates  must complete this in-residence, initial skills training for award of the 3-skill level. (T-1) 6.2.2.  Chaplain  Assistant  Journeyman  CDC.    All  3-level  chaplain  assistants  must successfully  complete  this  correspondence  course,  as  well  as  on-the-job  training requirements, for award of the 5-skill level. 6.3.  Professional Continuing Education (PCE) Courses. 6.3.1.  Chaplain  Assistant  Strategic  Leadership  Course.    This  course  is  a  mandatory requirement for all SNCOs based on the following prioritization: (T-1) 6.3.1.1.  Any SNCO who has assumed the role of MFM within the past 12 months. 6.3.1.2.  Any SNCO who is projected to assume the role of MFM within the next 12 months. 6.3.1.3.  Any AFCFM/MFM-nominated SNCO/NCO. 6.3.2.  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations  Course.    This  course  is  a  mandatory requirement for all Superintendents/NCOICs, Chapel Operations based on the following prioritization: (T-1) 6.3.2.1.  Any SNCO/NCO who has graduated the Apprentice Course within the past 12 months and assumed the role of Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations. 6.3.2.2.  Any  SNCO/NCO  who  has  assumed  the  role  of  Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations within the past 12 months. 6.3.2.3.  Any MFM-nominated SNCO/NCO in need of refresher qualification. 6.4.  Continuing Education.  Continuing education is any type of education that advances a specific  skill  set;  it  can  take  the  form  of  workshops,  seminars,  home-study,  online  courses, conferences or reading publications/journals.  As part of enlisted force development, chaplain assistants are required to obtain a minimum number of hours of continuing education during the  course  of  a  calendar  year  (see  Table  1).    (T-1)    Chaplain  assistants  must  meet  the minimum number of hours in each area, in addition to meeting the minimum number of total hours for their Enlisted Force Structure tier.  The minimum number of hours is based on the AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   7  enlisted  tier  and,  as  such,  is  driven  by  the  member’s  rank/grade  at  the  beginning  of  the reporting period (Example: A TSgt who is promoted to MSgt during the calendar year will be expected to acquire the minimum number of continuing education hours for NCOs for that reporting period). 6.4.1.  Supervisors  verify  continuing  education  hours  in  any  of  the  following  ways (mandatory reporting is indicated in paragraph 6.4.1.1.): 6.4.1.1.  Reporting of hours is required in AFCCARS.  Chaplain assistants assigned to HAF,  MAJCOMs,  AFIMSC  and  the  Chaplain  Corps  College  will  report  their numbers annually by 15 January to the AFCFM. 6.4.1.2.  Performance Feedback process (AFI 36-2406). 6.4.1.3.  Enlisted Performance Reports (AFI 36-2406). 6.4.1.3.1.  For SrA-TSgt, continuing education hours can be recorded on AF Form 910, Section III, Part 4, Training Requirements. 6.4.1.3.2.  For MSgt-CMSgt, hours can be recorded on AF Form 911, Section III, Part  5,  Training,  Education,  Off-Duty  Education,  PME,  Professional Enhancement and Communication. Table 1.  Continuing Education Requirements  Enlisted Force Structure Tier Senior NCOs NCOs Amn  Advising Leadership  Unit Engagement Crisis Intervention Counseling Religious Program Management Minimum Number of Hours 10 8 5 10 8 5 10 8 5 10 8 5 50 40 30 6.4.2.  Advising Leadership.  Topics may include, but are not limited to: 6.4.2.1.  Employing  Military  Capabilities:  Operational  and  strategic  art;  unit,  Air Force, Joint and coalition capabilities; and non-adversarial crisis response. 6.4.2.2.  Enterprise  Perspective:  Enterprise  structure  and  relationships;  government organization  and  processes;  global,  regional  and  cultural  awareness;  and  strategic communication. 6.4.2.3.  Managing  Organizations  and  Resources:  Resource  stewardship,  change management and continuous improvement. 6.4.2.4.  Strategic Thinking: Vision, decision making and adaptability. 6.4.2.5.  Leading People: Developing and inspiring others, taking care of people and diversity. 6.4.2.6.  Fostering  Collaborative  Relationships:  Building  teams  and  coalitions  and negotiating. 6.4.2.7.  Embodying Airman Culture: Ethical leadership, followership, Warrior Ethos and developing self.   8  AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 6.4.2.8.  Communicating: Speaking/writing and active listening. 6.4.3.  Unit Engagement.  Topics include, but are not limited to, organizational dynamics, teamwork,  communication,  team  construct/development  and  strategic  planning.    This may also include learning the unit’s history, mission and capability. 6.4.4.  Crisis  Intervention  Counseling.    Topics  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  crisis intervention  strategies,  suicide listening/screening techniques and traumatic stress response. intervention/prevention,  active 6.4.5.  Religious Program Management.  Topics include, but are not limited to, program management,  strategic  planning,  needs  assessments,  world  religions,  accounting, personnel management and administration. Conferences/Symposiums.  Chaplain 6.5.  Training training conferences/symposiums  are  designed  to  meet  professional  development  requirements  that directly  support  successful  Chaplain  Corps  mission  accomplishment.    Official  Temporary Duty  (TDY)  is  authorized  to  attend  these  conferences.    TDYs  may  also  be  authorized  for attendance  at  non-Chaplain  Corps  sponsored  conferences  that  meet  a  training  need  or professional development requirement. Corps sponsored 6.6.  Care for the Caregiver/Resiliency Training.  This Air Staff training provides personal growth, development and renewal opportunities.  Active duty chaplain assistants are required to attend at least one such training event every three to five years. 6.7.  Community  College  of  the  Air  Force  (CCAF).  Chaplain assistants should obtain an Associate Degree in Applied Science in Human Services through the CCAF. This degree is required  for  Airmen  to  be  vectored  to  Headquarters  Air  Force,  MAJCOM,  AFIMSC  or Chaplain Corps College assignments. 6.8.  Advanced  College/University  Degrees.  Advanced  education  is  encouraged  for enhancing  professional  qualifications  and  competency.    It  increases  leadership  skills  and helps prepare chaplain assistants for senior leadership positions. 6.9.  Enlisted  Development  Team  Vectoring  and  Mentoring.  Career-minded  Airmen should  serve  in  a  variety  of  duty  positions  that  promote  professional  development.    These positions are important  reflections of one’s career knowledge and experience  as an Airman and  chaplain  assistant  as  he/she  progresses  to  SNCO  positions  of  leadership.    The  Enlisted Development Team vectoring process, IAW AFI 36-2101 Classifying Military Personnel and Airmen  assignment  guidelines  set  the  requirements  for  specific  HAF,  MAJCOM,  AFIMSC and Chaplain Corps College positions.  This process allows Airmen the opportunity to match career  desires  with  experience.    Mentoring  is  an  inherent  responsibility  of  supervision  and leadership.  It  is  an  essential  ingredient  in  developing  well-rounded,  professional  and competent future leaders.  Chaplain assistants are encouraged to actively seek mentors both internal  and external  to  the Chaplain Corps.  Follow instructions for mentoring provided in AFI 36-3401, Air Force Mentoring. 6.9.1.  AFCFM: 6.9.1.1.  Manages the Enlisted Development Team vectoring and mentoring process. 6.9.1.2.  Establishes all suspenses. AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   9  6.9.1.3.  Requests MAJCOM/DRU Senior RSTs nominate eligible SNCOs/NCOs and Airmen for vectoring/mentoring process. 6.9.1.4.  Informs  nominees  of  their  selection  and  provides  guidance  regarding  the process. 6.9.1.5.  Selects  chair  members  for  SNCO  and  NCO/Airmen  vectoring/mentoring panels. 6.9.1.6.  Selects SNCOs for membership on vectoring/mentoring panels. 6.9.1.7.  Informs  selected  panel  members  and  provides  guidance  regarding  the process. 6.9.1.8.  Informs MAJCOM/DRU Senior RSTs of nominee results. 6.9.1.9.  Provides  Chief  of  Chaplains,  AFPC,  AFIMSC  and  Enlisted  Development Team with results. 6.9.2.  MAJCOM/DRU Senior RSTs: 6.9.2.1.  Nominate  eligible  SNCOs/NCOs  and  Airmen  for  vectoring/mentoring process. 6.9.2.2.  Actively  engage  with  wing  chaplains  and  Superintendents/NCOICs,  Chapel Operations  regarding  vectoring/mentoring  process  to  clarify  responsibilities  of nominee and supervisory chain. 6.9.2.3.  Review nominee packages upon receipt and validate accuracy of data. 6.9.2.4.  In conjunction with the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Command Chaplain, “concur” or “non-concur” with  wing chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel  Operations vector. 6.9.2.4.1.  If “concur,” finalize report and submit based on established suspense. “non-concur,” chaplain and 6.9.2.4.2.  If Superintendent/NCOIC  Chapel  Operations  in  an  effort  to  reach  concurrence.    If concurrence  cannot  be  reached,  “non-concur”  and  offer  justification  for  “non-concurrence.” coordinate  with  wing 6.9.2.5.  In  conjunction  with  wing  chaplain  and/or  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel Operations, review report with nominee in an effort to explain or clarify results. 6.9.2.6.  Send completed package to AFIMSC/HC POC identified in instructions. 6.9.3.  AFIMSC/HC: 6.9.3.1.  Reviews all reports for discrepancies or inconsistencies. 6.9.3.2.  Saves all documentation needed for panel review to SharePoint site. 6.9.3.3.  Analyzes cumulative data from panels and provides the AFCFM with results. 6.9.4.  Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations: (T-1) 6.9.4.1.  Ensure all suspenses are met. 6.9.4.2.  Ensure all submitted packages and correspondence are accurate.   10  AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 6.9.4.3.  Actively  engage  with  nominee  vectoring/mentoring  process  to  clarify responsibilities. 6.9.4.4.  Review nominee package(s) upon receipt and validate accuracy of data. 6.9.4.5.  “Concur”  or  “non-concur”  with  nominee’s  vector.    If  “concur,”  finalize report  and  submit  based  on  established  suspense.    If  “non-concur,”  coordinate  with nominee in an effort to reach concurrence.  If concurrence cannot be reached, “non-concur” and offer justification for “non-concurrence.” 6.9.4.6.  In conjunction with MFM, review report with nominee in an effort to explain or clarify results. 6.9.5.  Nominees:  (T-1) 6.9.5.1.  Ensure all suspenses are met. 6.9.5.2.  Ensure all submitted forms are accurate. 6.9.5.3.  Actively  engage  with  supervisory  chain  in  an  effort  to  understand responsibilities. 6.9.5.4.  Review  report  with  operational  (wing  chaplain  and  Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations) and functional (MFM) chains of command. 7.  Enlisted Force Structure.  Using the principles of centralized management and decentralized execution, the Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations is the central manager for all enlisted wing-level Chaplain Corps operations.  He/she is in the best position to guide subordinates along their career paths. 7.1.  Operational Supervision. 7.1.1.  The  wing  chaplain  directly  supervises  the  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel Operations.   (T-1) 7.1.2.  The Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations exercises operational supervision of all chaplain assistants on the staff, either by direct supervision or as the supervisor to their supervisor. (T-1)  In the case where another chaplain assistant holds the same rank as  the  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations,  both  individuals  will  be  rated  by  the wing  chaplain.    The  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations,  with  wing  chaplain approval,  will  determine  the  supervisory  chain  for  all  other  chaplain  assistants.    All supervisors  will  conduct  official  feedback,  drafts  awards  and  decoration  packages,  and perform  other  duties  normally  associated  with  the  supervision  of  individuals,  including mentoring.    The  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel  Operations  also  coordinates  duty requirements  for  all  chaplain  assistants  with  functional  leaders  (see  next  paragraph)  as necessary to avoid work conflicts and maintain unity of command. 7.2.  Functional  Authority.  Chaplains  or  chaplain  assistants  who  are  given  functional responsibilities  for  a  process  or  project  exercise  functional  authority  over  that  process  or project  and  others  assigned  to  support  it.    For  example,  a  chaplain  in  charge  of  flight  line ministries, who has a chaplain assistant assigned as an RST partner, is the functional leader of  the  flight  line  ministry  process  and  exercises  functional  authority.    Functional  leaders coordinate  requirements  for  chaplain  assistants  with  the  Superintendent/NCOIC,  Chapel AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   11  Operations  (see  previous  paragraph)  or  immediate  supervisor  as  necessary  to  avoid  work conflicts and maintain unity of command. 8.  Relieving  Chaplain  Assistants  from  Duty.  Chaplain  assistants  may  be  relieved  from  duty and from the Chaplain Assistant Career Field for any of the following reasons (IAW Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory 5R0X1): 8.1.  Displaying religious bias that negatively impacts the Chaplain Corps mission. 8.2.  Unauthorized disclosure of privileged/confidential communication. 8.3.  Any  history  of  emotional  instability,  personality  disorder  or  other  unresolved  mental health problem. 8.4.  Any  convictions  by  courts-martial  or  convictions  by  a  civilian  court,  except  for  minor traffic  violations  and  similar  infractions  listed  in  AFI  36-2002,  Regular  Air  Force  and Special Category Accessions. 8.5.  Any  record  of  substance  abuse,  financial  irresponsibility,  domestic  violence  or  child abuse. 8.6.  Inability to speak distinctly. 8.7.  Inability to possess high standards of military conduct. 8.8.  Any  conviction  in  civil  or  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  proceedings  (to include  judicial  and  nonjudicial  punishment)  for  any  type  of  drug  abuse  or  drug-related offense. 8.9.  Failure to  qualify to bear arms according to  AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel. 8.10.  Any  record  of  disciplinary  action  (Article  15  or  courts-martial)  for  engaging  in  an unprofessional  or  inappropriate  relationship  as  defined  in  AFI  36-2909,  Professional  and Unprofessional Relationships.  DONDI E. COSTIN, Chaplain, Major General, USAF Chief of Chaplains   12  AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 10 U.S.C., Chapter 47A AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and Special Category Accessions AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems AFI 36-2618, Enlisted Force Structure AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships AFI 36-3401, Air Force Mentoring AFI 38-202, Management Headquarters AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Corps Military Rule of Evidence 503 Adopted Forms AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. AF Form 910, Enlisted Performance Report (AB thru TSgt). AF Form 911, Enlisted Performance Report (MSgt thru CMSgt). Abbreviations and Acronyms AETC—Air Education and Training Command AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager AFI—Air Force Instruction AFIMSC—Air Force Installation & Mission Support Center AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive ASVAB—Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery CCAF—Community College of the Air Force CDC—Career Development Course CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan CTOF—Chapel Tithes and Offerings Fund AFI52-102V2  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   13  DRU—Direct Reporting Unit EPME—Enlisted Professional Military Education EPR—Enlisted Performance Report FDT—Force Development Team FOA—Field Operating Agency HC—Chaplain Directorate or Division MAJCOM—Major Command MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge PCE—Professional Continuing Education PMC—Professional Manager Certification RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RST—Religious Support Team STRT—Specialty Training Requirements Team STS—Specialty Training Standard TDY—Temporary Duty TPR—Trained Personnel Requirements UCMJ—Uniformed Code of Military Justice USAF—United States Air Force U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshop  