 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-903 30 JULY 2015 Law DISSIDENT AND PROTEST ACTIVITIES  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e- Publishing website at  www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasabiltiy restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/JAA  Supersedes:   AFI 51-903, 1 February 1998 Certified by: AF/JA  (Maj Gen Rockwell) Pages: 5   This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, and  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI)  1325.06,  Handling  Dissident  and  Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces.  It provides prohibitions and guidance regarding dissident and protest activities involving Air Force installations or Air Force members. It applies to  all Air Force military  personnel  serving on active duty or active duty for training.   Military members who violate the prohibitions contained in paragraphs 2, 4, 4.1, 6, 6.1 and 6.2, are subject to disciplinary action under Article 92, or other applicable articles of the Uniform Code  of  Military  Justice.    Violations  may  result  in  administrative  disciplinary  action  without regard  to  otherwise  applicable  criminal  or  civil  sanctions  for  violations  of  related  laws.    All waiver requests must be submitted through the chain of command to the OPR for submission to the appropriate outside agency.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/JAA using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the JA functional chain of command. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  revised  in  accordance  with  DoDI  1325.06,  Handling  Dissident  and Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces.  Major changes were made concerning   2  AFI51-903  30 JULY 2015 off-limits  action;  prohibited  activities;  activities  constituting  active  participation;  and  new guidance on the functions of command. 1.  Authority  and  Responsibility  of  Commanders.  Air  Force  commanders  have  the  inherent authority  and  responsibility  to  take  action  to  ensure  the  mission  is  performed  and  to  maintain good order and discipline.  This authority and responsibility includes placing lawful restrictions on dissident and protest activities. 1.1.  Air  Force  commanders  must  preserve  the  service  member’s  constitutional  right  of expression  to  the  maximum  extent  possible,  consistent  with  good  order,  discipline,  and national security. 1.2.  No commander should be indifferent to conduct that, if allowed to proceed unchecked, would impair the effectiveness of his or her unit. 1.3.  To  properly  balance  these  interests,  commanders  must  exercise  calm  and  prudent judgment  and  should  consult  with  their  staff  judge  advocates.    In  appropriate  cases, commanders may find it advisable to confer with higher authority before initiating action to restrict manifestations of dissent. 2.  Writing  for  Publications.  Air  Force  members  may  not  write  for  unofficial  publications, including blogs and other electronic social media journalistic forums, during duty hours. While unofficial publications, such as "underground newspapers," are not prohibited, they may not be produced  using  government  or  non-appropriated  fund  property  or  supplies  on  or  off-duty.    If such a publication contains language, the utterance of which is punishable by the Uniform Code of  Military  Justice  or  other  Federal  laws,  those  members  involved  in  printing,  publishing,  or distributing such materials are subject to discipline for such infractions.  Merely hosting a blog or other  electronic  social  media  journalistic  forum  does  not  rise  to  the  level  of  publishing  or distributing  the  comments  that  third  parties  may  post  there.    However,  if  said  media  forum routinely  receives  comments  that  adversely  impact  mission  accomplishment  (e.g.,  degrades morale,  good  order,  and  discipline)  then  the  hosting  Air  Force  member  may  be  ordered  to remove  the  degrading  comments  or  cease  and  desist  from  maintaining  said  media  forum.  Members  who  violate  these  prohibitions  are  subject  to  disciplinary  action  under  Article  92,  in addition to any other appropriate articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 3.  Off-limits  Action.  Action  may  be  initiated  under  AFJI  31-213,  Armed  Forces  Disciplinary Control Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations, to place establishments "off limits" when, for example, activities taking place include counseling, encouraging or inciting members of the Armed Forces to refuse to perform their duty or to desert, or involve acts with a significant adverse effect on health, welfare, or morale of military members. 4.  Prohibited  Activities.  Military  personnel  must  reject  participation  in  organizations  that advocate  or  espouse  supremacist,  extremist,  or  criminal  gang  doctrine,  ideology,  or  causes, including  those  that  advance,  encourage,  or  advocate  illegal  causes;  attempt  to  create  illegal discrimination  based on  race, color,  gender,  religion,  national  origin,  or ethnic group;  advocate the use of force or violence; or otherwise engage in the effort to deprive individuals of their civil rights.  Members who violate this prohibition are subject to disciplinary action under Article 92, in addition to any other appropriate articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 4.1.  Active participation, such as publicly demonstrating or rallying, fund raising, recruiting and  training  members,  organizing  or  leading  such  organizations,  knowingly  wearing  gang AFI51-903  30 JULY 2015   3  colors  or  clothing;  having  tattoos  or  body  markings  associated  with  such  gangs  or organizations,  or  otherwise  engaging  in  activities  in  relation  to  such  organizations  or  in furtherance of the objectives of such organization that the commander concerned finds to be detrimental  to  good  order,  discipline,  or  mission  accomplishment,  is  incompatible  with military  service  and  prohibited.    Members  who  violate  this  prohibition  are  subject  to disciplinary  action  under  Article  92,  in  addition  to  any  other  appropriate  articles  of  the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 4.1.1.  Mere  membership  in  the  type  of  organization  enumerated  is  not  prohibited. However, membership must be considered in evaluating or assigning members (AFI 36-2406,  Officer  and  Enlisted  Evaluation  Systems;  and  AFI  36-2706,  Equal  Opportunity Program, Military and Civilian). 4.1.2.  A  supremacist  organization  is  characterized  by  having  a  fundamental  tenet  of  its nature that particular members of one race, color, gender, national origin, or ethnic group are genetically superior to others.  Membership is usually restricted to those belonging to that particular race, color, gender,  national origin, or ethnic group. 4.1.3.  An  extremist  organization  is  characterized  by  members  sharing  a  common  belief in  a  particular  ideology  or  viewpoint,  which  might  otherwise  be  politically  or  socially acceptable, but that espouse the use or threat of force or violence to obtain their goals. 4.1.4.  A commander’s best tool for identifying whether or not a particular organization is a  recognized  criminal  gang  is  the  FBI’s  National  Gang  Assessment.    The  latest assessment  may  be  found  at  http://www.fbi.gov/stats-services/publications/2011-national-gang-threat-assessment.    This  assessment  is  periodically  updated  so  users should  verify  that  they  are  accessing  the  FBI’s  most  recent  report.    However,  this publication  may  be  supplemented,  with  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations (AFOSI) input, at any level, to locally augment the list of recognized criminal gangs. 4.2.  Commanders are authorized to use the full range of administrative procedures, including separation  or  appropriate  disciplinary  action  against  military  personnel  who  actively participate in such groups. 4.3.  It is  a function of command to  be vigilant  about  the existence of the type of activities enumerated above.  Commanders should intervene early, primarily through counseling, when observing  such  signs  even  though  the  signs  may  not  rise  to  active  advocacy  or  active participation or may not threaten good order and discipline, but only suggest such potential.  Active use of investigative authority to include a prompt and fair complaint process, and the use of administrative powers, such as non-punitive counseling, and performance evaluations should be used to deter such activities.  The goal of early intervention is to minimize the risk of future prohibited activities. 4.3.1.  Examples  of  such  signs,  which,  in  the  absence  of  the  active  advocacy  or  active participation, could include mere membership in criminal gangs and other organizations covered under paragraph 5. Signs could  also include possession of literature, or visiting websites, associated with such gangs or organizations, or with related ideology, doctrine, or causes. While mere membership, possession of literature or visiting such websites on a non-Government computer normally is not prohibited, it may merit further investigation   4  AFI51-903  30 JULY 2015 and  possibly  counseling  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  adherence  to  the  Department’s values and to ensure that the Service member understands what activities are prohibited. 5.  Training  Policy  on  Prohibited  Activities.  The  policy  on  prohibited  activities  shall  be included  in  initial  active  duty  training,  pre-commissioning  training,  professional  military education, commander training, and other appropriate Air Force programs. 6.  Demonstrations  and  Similar  Activities.  Demonstrations  or  other  activities  within  an  Air Force  installation,  which  could  result  in  interference  with  or  prevention  of  the  orderly accomplishment  of  a  mission  of  the  installation  or  which  present  a  clear  danger  to  loyalty, discipline, or morale of members of the Armed Forces, are prohibited.  Members who violate this prohibition  are  subject  to  disciplinary  action  under  Article  92,  in  addition  to  any  other appropriate articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 6.1.  It is a crime for any person to enter a military installation for any purpose prohibited by law or unlawful regulation, or for any person to  enter or reenter an installation after having been  barred  by  order  of  the  installation  commander  (AFI  31-101,  Integrated  Defense;  18 U.S.C. 1382). 6.2.  Air  Force  members  are  prohibited  from  participating  in  demonstrations  when  they  are on duty, when they are in a foreign country, when they are in uniform, when their activities constitute  a  breach  of  law  and  order,  or  when  violence  is  likely  to  result.  Members  who violate this provision are subject to disciplinary action under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 6.3.  The distribution or  posting of printed or  written materials  on Air Force installations is prohibited without prior approval of the installation commander or delagatee. 7.  Military  Grievances.  The  right  of  Air  Force  members  to  complain  and  request  redress  of their grievances against actions of their commanders is protected by Article 138, UCMJ (AFI 51-904,  Complaints  of  Wrongs  Under  Article  138,  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice)  and  by  the Inspector  General  Complaints  Resolution  System  (AFI  90-301,  Inspector  General  Complaints Resolution).  Military  personnel  may  also  petition  or  present  a  grievance  to  any  member  of Congress  without  fear  of  reprisal.  An  open  door  policy  for  complaints  is  a  basic  principle  of good  leadership.  Commanders  should  ensure  that  adequate  procedures  exist  locally  for identifying complaints and taking necessary corrective actions.  CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE Lieutenant General, USAF The Judge Advocate General AFI51-903  30 JULY 2015   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 18 U.S.C. § 1382, Entering Military, Naval, or Coast Guard Property, 11 January 2011 DoD Instruction 1325.06, Handling Dissident and Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces, 27 November 2009 AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 31 December 2009 AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009 AFJI 31-213, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations, 27 July 2006 AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 2 January 2013 AFI 36-2706, Equal Opportunity Program, Military and Civilian, incorporating Change 1, 5 October 2011 AFI 51- 904, Complaints of Wrongs Under Article 138, Uniform Code of Military Justice, 30 June 1994 AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Adopted Forms  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  Abbreviations and Acronyms  AFI—Air Force Instruction AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive DODI—Department of Defense Instruction FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation JA—Judge Advocate UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice USC—United States Code  