BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-602 13 APRIL 2017 Law BOARDS OF OFFICERS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/JAA  Supersedes:  AFI51-602, 2 March 1994  Certified by: AF/JAA  (Mr. Conrad Von Wald) Pages: 8    This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  51-6,  Command  and Administrative  Proceedings,  and  provides  instructions  for  conducting  boards  of  officers proceedings  authorized  by  specific  Air  Force  Instructions  (AFI).    This  publication  applies  to members  of  the  Regular  Air  Force  (RegAF).    It  may  be  used  by  members  of  the  Air  National Guard (ANG), the Air Force Reserve Command  (AFRC), or the Air Reserve Personnel  Center (ARPC) during proceedings.  Even when not specifically made applicable, this instruction may be  used  as  a  general  guide  for  boards  authorized  by  another  instruction.    In  case  of  a  conflict between  the  provisions  of  this  instruction,  when  made  applicable,  and  the  provisions  of  the specific instruction authorizing the board, the latter will govern.  Ensure that all records created as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS).    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.  Supplementation of this instruction is prohibited without prior review by AF/JAA. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    Major changes  include  expanding  guidance  on  the  roles  and  functions  of  a  board  of  officers,  adding guidelines  to  determine  admissibility  of  hearsay  evidence,  deleting  paragraphs  concerning 2 AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 disposition of board proceedings upon completion, and delineating the board of inquiry rights of victims of alleged sex-related offenses. 1.  Roles and Responsibilities  . 1.1.  Function  .    A  board  of  officers  is  an  administrative  board  that  considers  all  relevant and material evidence about the case and functions under rules and procedures established by the applicable AFI concerned.  It is the board’s duty to ascertain and consider the evidence on  all  sides  of  each  issue,  thoroughly  and  impartially,  and  to  make  findings  and recommendations that are warranted by the facts and that comply with the instructions of the appointing authority. 1.2.  Composition  .  Conduct proceedings before a board of three or more officers who are senior  in  grade  to  the  respondent  (applicable  to  respondents  in  grades  O-1  through  O-9), including  a  reserve  grade  if  applicable.    Board  members  are  subject  to  challenge  for  cause only.    If  the  number  of  members  of  the  board  falls  below  three,  the  convening  authority appoints additional members.  Note:  Specific grade requirements for officers are outlined in AFIs governing the specific proceeding.  If the AFPD/AFI creating the entitlement to a board allows enlisted personnel to serve as board members, follow the procedures of that AFPD/AFI concerning board composition. 1.2.1.  President  .    The  senior  voting  member  acts  as  the  President  of  the  Board.    The president will preserve order, recess or adjourn the board as necessary, and supervise the recorder to ensure that all business of the board is properly conducted. 1.2.2.  Legal  Advisor  .    Appoint  a  non-voting  judge  advocate  to  the  board  as  legal advisor  to  assist  the  board.    The  legal  advisor  is  the  final  authority  on  challenges  for cause against board members and for  all evidentiary  and procedural  matters.  However, the  legal  advisor  may  not  dismiss  any  allegation  against  a  respondent  or  terminate  the proceedings.  The legal advisor may convene a hearing without board members to assist in clarifying issues. 1.2.3.  Recorder  .  The government may be represented before the board by a non-voting recorder whose duties will be prescribed by the applicable AFI. 1.3.  Oaths  .  The recorder  swears in  the legal  advisor, reporter, interpreter, and the voting members.  The legal advisor swears in the recorder.  The recorder doesn't have to swear in a reporter who has been administered a one-time oath for courts-martial.  If the government is not  represented  by  a  recorder,  the  president  will  swear  in  the  legal  advisor,  and  the  legal advisor  will  administer  all  other  oaths.    The  recorder  administers  the  oath  to  each  witness who appears before the board.  Use one of the following forms: 1.3.1.  Do you swear that the evidence you shall give in the matter now in hearing shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God. 1.3.2.  Do you affirm that the evidence you shall give in the matter now in hearing shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 1.4.  Findings and Recommendations  . 1.4.1.  Generally  .    The  Board  will  decide  the  matter  on  the  evidence  received  or developed  during  open  proceedings.    Voting  will  be  conducted  in  closed  session  with AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 3 only voting members of the board in attendance.  All findings and recommendations will be determined by a majority vote. 1.4.2.  Findings  .  A finding is a clear and concise statement of a fact that can be readily deduced from evidence in the record.  It is directly established by evidence in the record or is a conclusion of fact by the board.  Negative findings (for example, that the evidence does not  establish  a fact) are often appropriate.   The number and nature  of the findings required  depend  on  the  purpose  of  the  board  and  on  the  instructions  of  the  appointing authority.    The  board  will  normally  not  exceed  the  scope  of  findings  directed  by  the appointing  authority.    The  findings  will  be  necessary  and  sufficient  to  support  each recommendation. 1.4.2.1.  Boards may not enter findings contrary to matters previously adjudicated in courts-martial, civilian criminal courts, professional medical credentialing boards, or state licensing boards.  This does not preclude a respondent from presenting matters in mitigation, extenuation, and explanation.  Without limiting a respondent's right to a full and fair hearing, the legal advisor may impose reasonable restrictions on evidence introduced by a respondent that conflicts with previously adjudicated matters. 1.4.2.2.  Standard of Proof  .  Preponderance of the evidence is the standard of proof to  be  used  in  arriving  at  determinations  in  administrative  proceedings  conducted under  this  instruction.    A  preponderance  of  evidence  is  that  evidence  which,  when fairly  considered,  produces  the  stronger  impression,  has  the  greater  weight,  and  is more convincing as to its truth when weighed against any evidence in opposition to it.  Findings and recommendations of the board must be concurred in by a majority of the voting members of the board and supported by a preponderance of the evidence.  The weight  of  the  evidence  is  not  determined  by  the  number  of  witnesses  or  volume  of exhibits, but by considering the quality of all of the evidence. 1.4.2.3.  Form  .    Findings  will  be  stated  to  reflect  clearly  the  relevant  facts established by the evidence and the conclusions thereon of the board.  If the board is authorized by an instruction that establishes specific requirements for findings, those requirements must be satisfied. 1.4.2.4.  Recommendations  .    The  nature  and  extent  of  recommendations  required also depend on the purpose of the investigation or board and on the instructions of the appointing  authority.    Each  recommendation  must  be  consistent  with  the  findings.  Boards  will  make  their  recommendations  according  to  their  understanding  of  the rules,  regulations,  policies,  and  customs  of  the  service,  guided  by  their  concept  of fairness both to the government and to individuals. 2.  Rules of Evidence  . 2.1.  Generally  .    Proceedings  under  this  instruction  are  administrative,  not  judicial.    The rules of evidence for courts-martial and other judicial proceedings are not applicable before an  administrative  board,  except  as  noted  here.    Oral  or  documentary  evidence  that  is competent, relevant, material and not unduly repetitious may be received.  In this connection, the following applies: 2.1.1.  Respondents  cannot  be  compelled  to  testify  against  themselves,  nor  may  their silence be used against them. 4 AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 2.1.2.  If a respondent elects to testify, he or she is then subject to cross-examination. 2.1.3.  Involuntary  confessions  or  admissions  by  respondents  are  not  admissible.  However, taken alone, a failure to advise a respondent, pursuant to Article 31, Uniform Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ),  or  the  Fifth  Amendment,  US  Constitution,  before confessions or admissions does not by itself make them inadmissible. 2.1.4.  The  exclusionary  rule in  administrative  board proceedings.  See generally, INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U.S. 1032 (1984); United States v. Janis, 428 U.S. 433 (1976). is  generally inapplicable 2.2.  Hearsay  . 2.2.1.  Hearsay evidence admissible in a judicial proceeding is generally admissible in all administrative proceedings. 2.2.2.  Hearsay evidence not otherwise admissible in a judicial proceeding: 2.2.2.1.  Evidence may not be excluded solely on the basis that it is hearsay.  Hearsay evidence  inadmissible  in  a  judicial  proceeding  is  not  necessarily  inadmissible  in  an administrative proceeding. 2.2.2.2.  Hearsay  evidence  is  admissible  provided  the  legal  advisor  determines  it  is probative  and  bears  indicia  of  reliability.    Factors  in  determining  whether  hearsay evidence  offered  by  the  government  is  probative  and  bears  indicia  of  reliability include the independence or possible bias of declarant; the type of hearsay submitted (e.g., independent and routinely prepared reports); whether the statements are signed and  sworn  as  opposed  to  anonymous,  oral,  or  unsworn;    whether  the  statements  are contradicted by direct  testimony;  whether the declarant  is  available to  testify, and if so,  whether  the  party  objecting  to  the  hearsay  requested  the  appearance  of  the declarant; whether the declarant is unavailable and no other evidence is available; the credibility  of  declarant  or  of  the  witness  testifying  to  the  hearsay;  and  whether  the hearsay is corroborated.  See Richardson v. Perales, 402 U.S. 389 (1971); Calhoun v. Bailar, 626 F.2d 145 (1980). 2.3.  Apply the Military Rules of Evidence governing privileged communications. 2.4.  Do not admit results of polygraph tests, except when both the respondent and recorder consent and the legal advisor approves. 2.5.  In resolving all other evidentiary matters, the legal advisor must consider: 2.5.1.  The  fact  that  administrative  proceedings  are  not  bound  by  the  formal  rules  of evidence prescribed for trials by courts-martial. 2.5.2.  The requirement for a full and fair hearing; 2.5.3.  The requirement for an impartial determination by the board; 2.5.4.  The requirement that there are adequate safeguards for truth; and, 2.5.5.  A party is entitled to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. 3.  Rights of a Respondent  . AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 5 3.1.  Notice  .    The  recorder,  at  a  reasonable  time  before  convening  the  board,  delivers  or sends the respondent a written communication stating: 3.1.1.  The time and place the board convenes. 3.1.2.  The  specific  allegations  to  be  investigated  in  sufficient  detail  to  enable  a respondent  to  answer.    Do  not  use  generalized  statements  unless  applicable  security regulations or directives require it to protect classified information. 3.1.3.  The name, organization, and duty station  (if civilian, the address)  of any  witness the recorder expects to call. 3.2.  Witnesses  .  The respondent may request the attendance of witnesses.  If such requests are  approved,  arrangements  are  made  by  the  government  for  military  and  other  federal employee  witnesses  to  be  present  (or  invitational  travel  orders  issued  to  civilian  witnesses who are not federal employees).  Approval of such requests is contingent upon the following: 3.2.1.  The request is made with enough time to make the arrangements; 3.2.2.  The  witnesses,  in  the  opinion  of  the  legal  advisor,  can  present  relevant  and material evidence; and 3.2.3.  It  is  reasonable  for  the  witness  to  attend,  as  determined  by  the  legal  advisor.  Factors the legal advisor should consider to determine reasonableness include:  a lack of subpoena  power;  distance  the  witness  has  to  travel  for  the  proceeding;  demands  of  the service/job  on  the  witness;  the  timing  of  the  request  for  production  of  the  witness;  the potential delay in the proceedings that may be caused by producing the witness; and the likelihood  of  significant  interference  with  military  operational  deployment,  mission accomplishment, or essential training. 3.3.  A  respondent  has  the  right  to  be  present  at  the  board  proceedings  (except  during  the board’s closed deliberations) and to present evidence on their own behalf with the following qualifications: 3.3.1.  An in absentia board may be convened to hear matters against a respondent who is in deserter status.  A military lawyer must be appointed to protect a respondent’s interests and present evidence on a respondent’s behalf. 3.3.2.  Where  possible,  arrangements  should  be  made  to  allow  for  the  attendance  of  an incarcerated  respondent  at  the  board.    [Note:    In  the  alternative,  an  incarcerated respondent may attend the board by video teleconference where arrangements for video teleconference  do  not  unduly  burden  or  delay  the  proceedings.]    However,  in  situations where  the  respondent’s  presence  is  not  possible  or  practical,  an  in  absentia  board  is authorized.    If  a  respondent  does  not  exercise  the  right  to  select  a  military  lawyer,  the convening  authority  appoints  a  military  lawyer  to  represent  him  or  her  and  present evidence on a respondent’s behalf. 3.4.  A respondent may testify on their behalf, subject to Title 10 United States Code Section 831. 3.5.  A respondent, and his or her counsel, may question any witness who appears before the board. 6 AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 3.6.  A  respondent  may  examine  and  object  to  the  introduction  of  real  and  documentary evidence, including written statements. 3.7.  Counsel  .  A respondent has the right to be represented before the board, free of charge, by either a detailed military lawyer or a military lawyer of their own choosing, if reasonably available  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  outlined  in  AFI  51-201,  Administration  of Military  Justice.    Civilian  counsel  may  represent  a  respondent  at  a  respondent’s  own expense. 3.8.  Documents  .    A  respondent  may  submit,  at  any  time  before  the  board  convenes  or during  the  proceedings,  documents  from  his  or  her  record  of  service,  letters,  answers, depositions, sworn or unsworn statements, affidavits, certificates, or stipulations, so long as the  legal  advisor  determines  they  are  relevant  to  the  proceedings.    Those  documents  may include  depositions  when  a  witness  is  deemed  to  be  reasonably  unavailable  or  unwilling  to appear  voluntarily,  provided  the  legal  advisor  determines  the  evidence  is  necessary,  an alternative  source  of  information  is  insufficient,  and  obtaining  the  witness  will  result  in  a significant delay in the proceeding or an unwarranted burden on Government resources. 4.  Rights  of  a  Victim  .    A  victim  of  an  alleged  sex-related  offense  as  set  forth  in  the allegation(s)  under  consideration  as  a  basis  for  the  board,  and  who  is  identified  in  the allegation(s) under consideration, shall be afforded the following rights at a board: 4.1.  The right to be treated with fairness and with respect for the dignity and privacy of the victim; 4.2.  The right to reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of the board; 4.3.  The right to receive the notification memorandum and relevant attachments, as well as motions and other board documents relevant to the victim’s role or interests in the proceeding [Note:  This  right  is  subject  to  Respondent’s  privacy  interests  and  attorney  work  product considerations.  It is limited to safeguarding the alleged victim’s right to be heard, and does not constitute discovery rights.]; 4.4.  The right to proceedings free from unreasonable delay; 4.5.  The reasonable right to confer with the recorder; 4.6.  The  right  not  to  be  excluded  from  the  board,  unless  the  legal  advisor  determines  by  a preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  testimony  by  the  victim  of  an  allegation  under consideration,  would  be  materially  altered  if  the  victim  heard  other  testimony  at  that proceeding.  However, once the victim testifies, the victim has the right to be present unless, in extraordinary circumstances, the legal advisor determines such presence will prejudice the proceedings; 4.7.  The  right  to  be  accompanied  by,  and  reasonably  be  heard  through  counsel  during  all portions  of  the  board  in  which  the  victim  participates.    Victim’s  counsel  has  standing  to address the legal advisor on evidentiary issues involving the rights of the victim, regardless of  victim  participation.    However,  the  board  may  not  be  unduly  delayed  for  this  purpose.  [Note:    Scope  of  victim  representation  in  proceedings  in  which  this  instruction  is  not applicable shall be  governed by the instruction creating that proceeding,  with  the advice of the legal advisor.] AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 7 4.8.  The  right  to  be  informed  of  the  results  of  the  board,  as  those  results  pertain  to  the victim’s role or interests in the proceeding. 4.9.  The right to be reasonably protected from respondent.  CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE Lieutenant General, USAF The Judge Advocate General 8 AFI51-602  13 APRIL 2017 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References AFPD 51-6, Command and Administrative Proceedings, 13 November 2015 AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 6 June 2013, incorporating AFI51-201_AFGM2016-01, 3 August 2016 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, certified current 9 April 2015 Article 31, Uniform Code of Military Justice Fifth Amendment, United States Constitution INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U.S. 1032 (1984) Richardson v. Perales, 402 U.S. 389 (1971) United States v. Janis, 428 U.S. 433 (1976) Calhoun v. Bailar, 626 F.2d 145 (1980) Abbreviations & Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center ANG—Air National Guard DOD—Department of Defense RegAF—Regular Air Force UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Terms Victim of an Alleged Sex—Related Offense–A victim of an sex-related offense is an individual who  has  suffered  a  direct  physical,  emotional,  or  pecuniary  harm  as  a  result  of  an  alleged violation  of  Article  120,  120a,  120b,  120c,  125,  or  sex-related  offenses  charged  under  Article 134  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ),  or  attempts  to  commit  these  offenses pursuant to Article 80, UCMJ.  