BY ORDER OF THE Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 2.4. Designates qualified officers as judge advocates under 10 U.S.C. 8067(g) and AFI 51-103; certi-fies judge advocates as military judges or as trial and defense counsel under  10 U.S.C. 826 and 827and AFI 51-103, Designation and Certification of Judge Advocates (formerly AFR 110-9); recruits,accesses and assigns judge advocates and develops and implements plans for training, using and pro-fessionally developing judge advocates under 10 U.S.C. 806(a); supervises continuing legal educationand other training programs for members of TJAGD; provides functional supervision of the Air ForceJudge Advocate General School; enforces ethical standards in Air Force military legal practice,including receiving, investigating and disposing of allegations involving breaches of ethical or profes-sional standards applicable to Air Force attorneys; and administers the Air Force Judge AdvocateAwards Program.2.5. Supervises the Air Force Legal Services Agency.  Supervises legal activities required to protectthe United States’ interests in judicial and administrative proceedings which arise out of or otherwiseaffect Air Force activities; supervises the processing and litigation of tort and personnel claims andother claims by and against the United States arising from Air Force activities; provides legal counselto Air Force medical activities; supervises the Air Force Preventive Law and Legal Assistance Pro-grams; administers Air Force patent, copyright, trademark and intellectual property law programs;supervises Air Force legal information services; publishes legal professional materials; and managesthe Worldwide Automated Law Library System.3. Staff Judge Advocates. Unless otherwise specified by TJAG, in units of the active duty force, AirForce Reserve and Air National Guard in Federal service, the senior judge advocate on the commander’sstaff will serve as the commander’s staff judge advocate (SJA).  A staff judge advocate must advise his orher convening authority of the statutory duty under 10 U.S.C. 806(b) to at all times communicate directlywith the staff judge advocate in matters relating to administering military justice.  An SJA:3.1. Provides legal services required by commanders and staff agencies.3.2. Advises commanders on disciplinary matters, prepares charge sheets and assists in preparingnonjudicial punishment actions; provides legal advice and assistance to Security Police and Air ForceOffice of Special Investigations personnel; and provides advice to commanders and investigatingofficers on all investigations conducted under a commander’s inherent authority or under regulation.3.3. Provides legal advice and reviews actions for legal sufficiency.3.4. Acts as Air Force liaison with the US Attorney and other Federal, state and local legal depart-ments, administrative agencies and judicial bodies; represents Air Force interests in utility rate mat-ters; supports command and represents Air Force interests in environmental and civilian labor matters.3.5. Provides briefings required by law, directive, instruction, or policy.3.6. Drafts and reviews operation and exercise plans for compliance with the law of armed conflict;provides advice to commanders and staffs on international law matters, including foreign criminaljurisdiction, host country law, civil litigation, negotiations, and treaty and agreement interpretation;and provides advice and counsel to participants in mobility and contingency operations.4. Professional Development Requirements. Judge advocates on extended active duty submit AF Form221, Judge Advocate Career Management Questionnaire or Professional Development Information(Test) Questionnaire, to record current assignment preferences and other information.  Send the formdirectly to the Professional Development Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General, HQ USAF/2JAX, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1420.  File copies as required by major command(MAJCOM) or field operating agency (FOA) directives.  These forms may be submitted at any time, butmust be submitted no later than 60 days after a permanent change of station, permanent change of assign-ment, or selection for promotion.  Judge advocates are encouraged to update the form at least every 2years.4.1. Each legal services airman on extended active duty must submit AF Form 237, Legal ServicesAirman Special Qualification Data, to record current qualification information.  Send the formdirectly to the Senior Paralegal Manager to TJAG, Office of The Judge Advocate General, HQ USAF/JAAE, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1420.  File copies as required by MAJCOMor FOA directives.  AF Form 237 may be submitted at any time, but must be submitted no later than60 days after a permanent change of station, permanent change of assignment, or selection for promo-tion.4.2. Judge advocates on extended active duty will ensure that a copy of the most recent official pho-tograph is sent directly to HQ USAF/JAX.5. Forms Prescribed:• AF Form 221, Judge Advocate Career Management Questionnaire.• AF Form 237, Legal Services Airman Special Qualification Data.NOLAN SKLUTE,  Maj General, USAFThe Judge Advocate General3