BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-702 22 MAY 2017 Law FOREIGN TAX RELIEF PROGRAM     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  HQ USAF/JAO  Supersedes:  AFI 51-702, 28 April 1994  Certified by: HQ USAF/JAO  (Col Todd E. McDowell) Pages: 4 This  publication  implements  AFPD  51-7,  International  Law,  19  January  2001,  and  DoD Instruction  (DoDI)  5100.64,  DoD  Foreign  Tax  Relief  Program,  8  July  2016.    It  outlines  Air Force  responsibilities  in  supervising  and  monitoring  programs  to  obtain  tax  relief  from  foreign governments.  This instruction applies to members and units in the Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR)  and  Title  10  United  States  Code  (USC)  status  Air  National  Guard (ANG)  members  and  units.    It  does  not  apply  to  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  units  in  Title  32 status.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  listed  above  for  coordination  prior  to  certification and  approval.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR listed  above  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  chain  of  command.  The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records, and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System (AFRIMS) Records  Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of  any specific manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply endorsement by the Air Force. 2 AFI51-702  22 MAY 2017 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  revised  and  must  be  reviewed.  The  revised  instruction  removes  the option to appoint a US Country Representative. 1.  Overview.  Air Force policy is to obtain, to the maximum extent practicable, effective relief from  all  foreign  taxes  whenever  the  ultimate  economic  burden  of  those  taxes  would  otherwise result in the expenditure of funds appropriated or allocated to the Air Force or under the control of its nonappropriated fund activities.  Tax relief shall be considered impractical when the total economic burden of a tax not readily identifiable in the normal course of business is so small that it  may  be  considered  a  de  minimis  matter,  or  when  the  administrative  burden  of  securing effective relief from a tax in a particular instance is out of proportion to the amount of the relief obtained. 2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  Air Force Personnel involved in the expenditure of appropriated or nonappropriated Air Force  funds  will  obtain,  to  the  maximum  extent  practicable,  effective  relief  from  foreign taxes. (T-0) 2.2.  The Operations and International Law Division (AF /JAO) supervises and monitors the Air Force’s program  for foreign tax relief and  coordinates with  the Office of the Air  Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) on relevant foreign tax matters. 2.3.  Geographic  Combatant  Commanders  designate  a  single  military  commander  to  be responsible for tax matters for each foreign country. 2.4.  Designated  Military  Commanders  are  responsible  for  the  DoD  Foreign  Tax  Relief Programs  within  their  respective  countries  and  are  the  single  point  of  contact  for  US contracting officers and foreign tax relief program activities. 2.5.  Major Commands (MAJCOM).  In countries where the designated military commander is  not  an  Air  Force  commander,  overseas  MAJCOM  commanders  may  designate  an  Air Force Liaison Officer (AFLO) to  coordinate communication among all Air Force activities, the designated military commander, and other competent authorities about the Air Force Tax Relief Program. 2.6.  Contracting  Officers  inform  the  servicing  judge  advocate  office  of  any  attempts  to impose       foreign taxes and whether the contractors have fully and promptly complied with the foreign tax provisions of contracts. (T-1) 3.  Referrals. 3.1.  The  appropriate  Air  Force  office  having  responsibility  for  tax  relief  in  the  country concerned (AFLO, if designated) refers foreign tax problems involving the Air Force and its contractors  or  subcontractors  for  action  to  the  Designated  Military  Commander,  and AF/JAO. 3.2.  When  the  Designated  Military  Commander  refers  a  foreign  tax  problem  involving  a contractor to  higher headquarters, Air  Force contracting officers must notify the contractor, unless doing so is not advisable due to overriding US national interests, such as those relating to negotiating positions or security requirements. (T-1) AFI51-702  22 MAY 2017 3 4.  Foreign Tax Relief Reports.  Submit a copy of any report or summary of significant foreign tax  relief  program  activities  prepared  by  or  for  the  air  component  of  a  combatant  command  to AF/JAO.  Christopher F. Burne, Lieutenant General, USAF The Judge Advocate General 4 AFI51-702  22 MAY 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoD Instruction 5100.64, DoD Foreign Tax Relief Program, 8 July 2016 AFPD 51-7, International Law, 19 January 2001 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFLO—Air Force Liaison Officer AF/JAO—Operations and International Law Division AFR—Air Force Reserve ANG—Air National Guard DODI—DoD Instruction MAJCOM—Major Command RegAF—Regular Air Force SAF/GC—Office of the Air Force General Counsel USC—United States Code Terms relief—Any method, technique, or procedure by which the ultimate economic burden of a tax on DoD funds may be avoided or otherwise remedied, such as exemption, refund, or drawback. tax—All direct or indirect foreign customs duties, import and export taxes, excises, fees, and any other charges, imposed at the national, local, or an intermediate level of a foreign country other than charges for services requested and received, regardless of how a charge is denominated in foreign  law  or  regulation.    Taxes  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  business  tax,  circulation  tax, consumption  tax,  gasoline  tax,  gross  income  tax,  gross  receipts  tax,  license  tax,  luxury  tax, personal property tax, possession tax, production tax, purchase tax, real property tax, registration tax,  sales  tax,  service  tax,  stamp  tax,  trade  tax,  transaction  tax,  transfer  tax,  transportation  tax, turnover tax, use tax and value added tax.  