BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Law REPRESENTATIONAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL ACTIVITIES OF AIR FORCE PERSONNEL COMPLIANCE WITH THISPUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/JAA  Supersedes:   AFI 51-906, 21 July 1994 Certified by: AF/JA (Maj Gen Rockwell) Pages: 13   This Instruction implements DoDI 1354.01, DoD Policy on Organizations that Seek to Represent or Organize Members of the Armed Forces in Negotiation or Collective Bargaining and AFPD 51-9,  Civil  Law  for  Individuals.    It  provides  guidance  and  procedures  for  responding  to individuals  and  organizations  on  a  military  installation  whose  objective  is  to  represent  or organize  military  members  of  the  Air  Force  for  the  purpose  of  negotiation  or  collective bargaining  over  terms  or  conditions  of  military  service.    It  describes  both  prohibited  and permissible  conduct  of  Air  Force  civilian  and  military  personnel  (including  Air  Reserve Component  personnel)  with  respect  to  representational  and  organizational  activities.    This Instruction also applies to Air National Guard personnel performing duty or training in any Title 32 status.  Military members subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) (i.e., in Title 10 status), who violate the prohibitions, or fail to comply with the mandatory requirements, as applicable, in paragraphs 2.1 through 2.5.2 of this Instruction may be prosecuted under Article 92, UCMJ, as well as any other applicable articles of the UCMJ or provisions of federal law.  Violations  may  result  in  administrative  disciplinary  action  in  addition  to  otherwise  applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws.  Violations by civilian employees (to include  Air  Reserve  Component  Military  Technician  employees)  may  result  in  administrative disciplinary  action  without  regard  to  otherwise  applicable  criminal  or  civil  sanctions  for violations of related laws.  Any organization may supplement this publication:  Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) notify AF/JAA; other organizations notify the next higher headquarters.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  or  T-3”)  number following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,   2  AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Compliance waiver requests must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority. All other waivers will be submitted to the publication OPR.  Ensure that all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.  Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to AF/JAA, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1420, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.   Major changes include  extending  the  applicability  of  the  AFI  to  Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  personnel; tiering the publication; removing the prohibition on recruitment; eliminating redundancies; and updating terminology.  Paragraph 2.4.3.1distinguishes between activities of traditional veterans organizations and those of military labor organizations, and paragraph 4.5.4 changes the required reporting method for requests or attempts to engage in activities prohibited by this Instruction.  Table  1  was  modified  to  delineate  between  actions  taken  by  the  unit  and  installation commanders,  and  to  require  installation  commanders  to  report  solicitations  made  through  the U.S.  mail.    Attachment  1  was  revised  to  include  a  list  of  references,  and  Attachment  2  was changed to reflect the new requirements found in paragraph 4.5.4.    1.  Unionization  of  Military  Personnel.  The  traditional  union  functions  of  collective  or concerted actions would impair the control of Air Force commanders over military personnel and thereby  threaten  the  security  of  the  United  States.    Unionization  of  the  Air  Force  would  be incompatible with the military chain of command because it would undermine the role, authority, and position of the commander and impair the morale and readiness of the Air Force.  Air Force commanders  could  not  maintain  readiness,  be  responsive  to  contingency  plans,  or  accomplish their missions if required to bargain over their orders, consult over decisions, or be subject to collective actions of any sort. 1.1.  Any  individual  or  organization  which  seeks  to  intrude  on  the  relationship  between commanders  and  military  members  of  the  Air  Force  in  matters  relating  to  mission accomplishment  or  terms  or  conditions  of  military  service  presents  a  clear  danger  to discipline,  loyalty,  and  obedience  to  lawful  orders  of  command.    Such  interference  is  not permitted. 1.2.  The processes of conventional collective bargaining and labor-management negotiation cannot apply to the relationships between members of the Air Force and their military and civilian superiors.  Strikes, slowdowns, picketing, and other traditional forms of job action have no place in the Air Force. 2.  Prohibited  Activities:  Failure  to  obey  any  prohibition  or  failure  to  comply  with mandatory  requirements  in  paragraphs  2.1  through  2.5.2  is  a  violation  of  Article  92, UCMJ. 2.1.  General  Prohibitions.  Military  members  and  civilian  employees  will  not  attempt  to engage in or solicit the commission of any act prohibited by this Instruction, nor will they AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   3  conspire  with  or  aid  and  abet  any  person  or  organization  in  the  commission  of  any  act prohibited by this Instruction. 2.2.  Prohibited Membership or Enrollment in Certain Organizations: 2.2.1.  Military members, knowing of the activities or objectives of a particular military labor organization, may not: 2.2.1.1.  Join or maintain membership in such organization; or 2.2.1.2.  Attempt  to  enroll  or  enroll  any  other  member  of  the  Armed  Forces  as  a member of such organization. 2.2.2.  No person on a military installation may enroll any member of the Armed Forces in a military labor organization, or solicit or accept dues or fees for such an organization from any member of the Armed Forces. 2.3.  Negotiation or Collective Bargaining. 2.3.1.  No  person  on  a  military  installation  and  no  military  member  may  negotiate  or bargain, or attempt through any coercive act to negotiate or bargain, with any member of the  Armed  Forces  or  civilian  employee,  on  behalf  of  members  of  the  Armed  Forces, concerning the terms or conditions of service of such members. 2.3.2.  Military  members  and  civilian  employees  will  not  engage  in  negotiation  or collective  bargaining  on  behalf  of  the  United  States  concerning  terms  or  conditions  of military  service  of  members  of  the  Armed  Forces  with  any  person  who  represents  or purports to represent members of the Armed Forces. 2.3.3.  For Air Reserve Component Military Technician employees, the military aspects of  technician  employment  and  policies,  procedures,  and  conditions  of  employment related to or affecting those military aspects will not be subject to collective bargaining. 2.4.  Strikes and Other Concerted Activities.  No person on a military installation, and no military member may organize or attempt to organize, or participate in, any strike, picket, march, demonstration, or other similar form of  concerted  action (e.g., distributing leaflets, making  speeches)  involving  members  of  the  Armed  Forces  that  is  directed  against  the Government  of  the  United  States  and  that  is  intended  to  induce  any  civilian  employee  or member of the Armed Forces to: 2.4.1.  Negotiate or bargain with any person concerning the terms or conditions of service of any member of the Armed Forces. 2.4.2.  Recognize  any  military  labor  organization  as  a  representative  of  individual military members in connection with a member's complaint or grievance arising out of the terms or conditions of the member's service. 2.4.3.  Make any change with respect to the terms or conditions of service of individual members of the Armed Forces. 2.4.3.1.  This  provision  is  not  intended  to  prohibit  the  mere  attendance  at  speeches hosted  by  traditional  veterans’  organizations,  whose  lobbying  and  public  affairs objectives and efforts on behalf of retired military personnel, may have an ancillary impact on military pay and benefits for active duty personnel.   4  AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 2.5.  Improper Use of a Military Installation. 2.5.1.  No person may use any military installation to meet, march, picket, demonstrate or for  any  other  similar  activity  (e.g.,  distributing  leaflets,  making  speeches,  etc.)  for  the purpose of engaging in any activity prohibited by this Instruction. 2.5.2.  No civilian employee or military member may permit or authorize the use of any military  installation  for  any  meeting,  march,  picketing,  demonstration,  or  other  similar activity  (e.g.,  distributing  leaflets,  making  speeches,  etc.)  which  is  for  the  purpose  of engaging in any activity prohibited by this Instruction. 3.  Permissible Activities. 3.1.  Civilian  employees  may  join  or  be  a  member  of  any  organization  that  engages  in representational  activities  with  respect  to  terms  or  conditions  of  civilian  employment, provided no other restrictions apply. 3.2.  Military members may. 3.2.1.  Present  complaints  or  grievances  over  terms  or  conditions  of  military  service through established military channels, including the Office of the Inspector General. 3.2.2.  Petition Congress for redress of  grievance or communicate with any member of Congress. 3.2.3.  Seek or receive information or counseling from any source. 3.2.4.  Be represented by qualified counsel, whether or not retained by an organization on his or her behalf, in any judicial or administrative proceeding with respect to which there is a right to counsel of choice. 3.2.5.  Belong to lawful organizations other than military labor organizations. 3.2.6.  Take any other administrative action to seek administrative or judicial relief as is authorized by applicable laws and regulations. 3.3.  Commanders  or  supervisors  will  give  due  consideration  to  the  views  of  military members  presented  individually  or  as  a  result  of  participation  on  command-sponsored  or authorized  advisory  councils,  committees,  or  organizations  for  the  purpose  of  improving conditions or communications at the Air Force installation involved. 4.  Responsibilities. 4.1.  AF/JAA  and  AF/A1P  are  the  primary  Air  Staff  contacts  for  matters  related  to  this Instruction.  AF/JAA and AF/A1P will be information addressees on all correspondence and messages related to this Instruction. 4.2.  Military members and civilian employees must comply with 10 U.S.C. 976 and with this Instruction.    While  the  Air  Force  will  make  every  effort  to  inform  its  members  and employees about which organizations are military labor organizations, the failure of the Air Force  to  inform  its  members  that  a  particular  organization  is  a military  labor  organization will not shield those members from liability under 10 U.S.C. 976 or under this Instruction. 4.3.  Air Force personnel assist installation commanders in identifying incidents or conduct prohibited by this Instruction. AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   5  4.4.  Unit Commanders take actions consistent with this Instruction and DoDI 1354.01.  See Table 1 for situational guidance. (T-0) 4.5.  Installation Commanders. 4.5.1.  Enforce the prohibitions of paragraphs 2.1. through 2.5.2. of this Instruction.  See Table 1 for situational guidance.  (T-0) 4.5.2.  Make  administrative  determinations  whether  an  organization  is  a  military  labor organization on a case-by-case basis. See the guidelines in Attachment 3. Coordinate with the servicing staff judge advocate as appropriate. (T-0) 4.5.3.  Publicize information through command channels when an organization has been determined to be a military labor organization which inform military members: 4.5.3.1.  That the identified organization poses a clear danger to discipline, loyalty, or obedience to lawful orders, (T-0) and 4.5.3.2.  That knowing, active membership in that organization by a military member, with the intent to promote conduct prohibited by this Instruction, is not permitted. (T-0) through intermediate  commanders 4.5.4.  Immediately  report their  MAJCOM commander,  all  incidents  concerning  requests  for  permission  or  attempts  to  engage  in activities  prohibited  by  this  Instruction  (See  Table  1).    Provide  information  copies  to AF/JAA and AF/A1P.  AF/A1P will immediately forward the report to SAF/MR through AF/A1 for transmission to the SECAF and SECDEF in accordance with DoDI 1354.01.  See the minimum required reporting information at Attachment 2. (T-0) 4.6.  Intermediate  commanders  or  higher  authority  provide  guidance commanders as appropriate. installation to to 5.  Situational Guidance.  Guidance for dealing with activities prohibited by this Instruction is in Table 1. This guidance is for example only and does not override the judgment of individual commanders or the advice of their staff judge advocates. A Table 1.  Situational Guidance for Commanders. R U L E   and If B 1 an individual or organization claims to represent military members of the Armed Forces the purpose is for negotiation or collective bargaining over terms or conditions of C D the installation commander reports the incident the unit commander or installation commander advises the individual or organization that he or she is prohibited from negotiating or collectively bargaining over terms or   6  AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 2 3 4 5 6 military service    an individual or organization requests permission to negotiate or collectively bargain on behalf of military members an individual or organization attempts to negotiate or collectively bargain on behalf of military members of the Armed Forces an organization that claims to represent military members of the Armed Forces threatens a strike, slowdown, work stoppage or other collective job-related action, or picketing an organization that claims to represent military members of the Armed Forces engages in a strike, slowdown, work stoppage or other collective job-related action, or picket the organization and military members have been advised that such activity by military personnel is prohibited  an individual or organization pickets for the purpose of causing or coercing military members of the Armed Forces to engage in a strike, slowdown, work stoppage or other collective job-related action conditions of military service denies the request reports the incident takes disciplinary or administrative action, when appropriate, against those who engaged in prohibited activity advises the organization and all military personnel that they are prohibited from engaging in strikes, slowdowns, work stoppages, or other collective job-related actions, or picketing takes necessary action to return to normal operation and takes disciplinary or administrative action, when appropriate, against those who engaged in prohibited activity takes disciplinary or administrative action, when appropriate, against those who engaged in prohibited activity reports the incident reports the incident reports the incident takes necessary action to stop such activity on base and reports the incident AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 7 8 9  an individual or organization requests permission to conduct a demonstration, meeting or protest, or engage in speechmaking picketing or leafleting, or other such activity an individual or organization attempts on-base distribution of literature soliciting membership or promoting an organization which purports or proposes to represent military members in negotiation or collective bargaining  the purpose is to solicit military members of the Air Force to join an organization that participates, or is substantially likely to participate, in negotiation or collective bargaining, strikes or other concerted actions the organization proposes or holds itself out as proposing to engage in negotiation or collective bargaining on behalf of military members of the Armed Forces permission has not been requested permission to distribute was previously denied 10 an individual or organization distributes literature soliciting membership or promoting distribution is through the US mail informs the installation commander   7  denies the individual or organization access to the base and/or denies permission to conduct such activities and reports the incident halts distribution, reviews the literature for violations of this Instruction or AFI 51-903, takes disciplinary or administrative action, when appropriate, against those who engaged in prohibited activity takes disciplinary or administrative action, when appropriate, against those who engaged in prohibited activity takes no action reports the incident.  halts further distribution, confiscates available literature, removes violators from the base, and reports the incident reports the incident an organization which purports or proposes to represent military members in negotiation or collective bargaining a military member asks about the legality of joining a union or other organization    8  11  AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 takes no action advises member active membership is prohibited in organizations that violate AFI 51-906 when the member knows the organization engages in prohibited conduct and the member intends to promote such conduct and further advises member that it is permissible to belong to an organization which engages in representational activities with respect to terms or conditions of off-duty employment CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE Lieutenant General, USAF The Judge Advocate General AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   9  Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORING INFORMATION References Title 5, United States Code, Section 2105 Title 5, United States Code, Section 3101 Title 10, United States Code, Section 976 Title 10, United States Code, Section 10216 Title 32, United States Code, Section 709 DoD Instruction 1354.01, DoD Policy on Organizations that Seek to Represent or Organize Members of the Armed Forces in Negotiation or Collective Bargaining, January 19, 2007 DoD Directive 5200.27 Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and Organizations not Affiliated with the DoD, January 7, 1980 AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993 AFI 51-903, Dissident and Protest Activities, 1 February 1998 AFI 71-101, Volume 1, Criminal Investigations, 1 December 1999  AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.   Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive DOD—Department of Defense DODI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency MAJCOM—Major Command SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force SECDEF—Secretary of Defense UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice   10  AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Terms Aid and Abet—Means to be present during, or have knowledge of, the commission of any act prohibited by this Instruction and to assist, command, counsel, or otherwise encourage such an act. Air  Force  Installation—Includes  bases,  stations,  sites,  facilities,  aircraft,  and  other  property controlled by the Department of the Air Force.  On Joint Bases, this Instruction will apply when the Air Force is the supporting component. Civilian  Employee—An  employee  as  defined  in  5  U.S.C.  2105.    This  includes  Air  Reserve Component Military Technician employees who may be wearing a military uniform. Collective Job-Related Action — Any activity by two or more persons that is intended to and does obstruct or interfere with the performance of a military duty assignment. Conspire—To  join  or  agree  with  one  or  more  persons  to  commit  an  act  prohibited  by  this Instruction. Installation  Commander—The  officer  so  identified  by  administrative  order  or  command directive  and  as  such  is  responsible  for  duties  assigned  to  the  "Installation  Commander"  by United States statutes and Air Force directives. Military Labor Organization—Any organization that engages in or attempts to engage in: • Negotiating or bargaining with any civilian employee or Air Force member, on behalf of Air Force members, concerning the terms or conditions of military service of such members.  • Representing individual Air Force members before any civilian employee or any Air Force member,  in  connection  with  any  grievance  or  complaint  of  any  such  represented  member arising out of the terms or conditions of that member's military service.  • Striking, picketing, marching, demonstrating, or any other similar form of concerted action directed against the Government of the United States and which is intended to induce any civilian employee, or any Air Force member to:  • Negotiate or bargain with any person concerning the terms or conditions of military service of any Air Force member.  •  Recognize  any  organization  as  a  representative  of  individual  Air  Force  members  in connection  with  complaints  and  grievances  of  such  members  arising  out  of  the  terms  or conditions of such members' military service.  • Make any change with respect to the terms or conditions of military service of individual Air Force members. Member  of  the  Armed  Forces—A member of any uniformed service in a Title 10 status, to include members of a reserve component.  Additionally, for purposes of this Instruction, the term includes members of the Air National Guard performing duty or training in any Title 32 status. AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   11  Military  Member—A  member  of  the  Air  Force,  to  include  members  of  an  air  reserve component serving on active duty and members of the Air National Guard performing duty or training in any Title 32 status. Negotiation  or  Collective  Bargaining—A  process  whereby  a  commander  or  supervisor, military or civilian, acting on behalf of the United States, engages in discussions with a military member  or  members  of  the  Air  Force  (purporting  to  represent  such  members),  or  with  an individual  group,  organization,  or  association  purporting  to  represent  such  members,  for  the purpose of resolving bilaterally, terms or conditions of military service. Solicit—To use words or any other means to request, urge, advise, counsel, tempt, or command another to commit any act prohibited by this Instruction. Terms  or  Conditions  of  Military  Service—Terms or conditions of military compensation or duty, including, but not limited to, wages, rates of pay, duty hours, assignments, grievances, or disputes.    12  AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Attachment 2 SAMPLE REPORT A2.1.  Reports  made  under  paragraph  4.5.4  should  at  a  minimum  include  the  information described in the table below. A2.2.  Review DoDI 1354.01 for requirements to report actions to SECAF and SECDEF. Figure A2.1.  Sample Report.  TO: Intermediate Commanders and [MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU] Commander  CC: AF/A1P, AF/JAA  SUBJECT: Military Union Incident  1. Name of installation  2. Type of incident (request or attempt for negotiation or collective bargaining, strike or other concerted action, distribution of literature, active membership, or other prohibited activity.)  3. Name(s) of individual(s) or organization  4. Narrative statement of incident  5. Brief summary of constitution, bylaws, statement of purpose submitted by the individual or organization, or other information and the source.  6. Summary of commander’s action    AFI51-906  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   13  Attachment 3 GUIDELINES FOR MAKING ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS A3.1.  To determine whether an organization is a military labor organization, whether a person is a member of a military labor organization, or whether such person or organization is in violation of  any  provision  of  this  Instruction,  consider  the  history  and  operation  of  the  organization (including  its  constitution  and  bylaws,  if  any)  and  the  person.    Consider  evidence  of  conduct constituting a prohibited act. A3.2.  To determine whether the commission of a prohibited act by a person can be imputed to the  organization,  consider  factors  such  as  the  frequency  of  such  act;  the  position  in  the organization of persons committing the act; whether the commission of such act was known by the  leadership  of  the  organization;  and  whether  the  commission  of  the act  was  condemned  or disavowed by the leadership of the organization. A3.3.  Gather  any  information  about  persons  and  organizations  not  affiliated  with  the Department of Defense needed to make the determinations required by this Instruction in strict compliance  with  the  provisions  of  DoDD  5200.27,  Acquisition  of  Information  Concerning Persons  and  Organizations  not  Affiliated  with  the  DoD,  January  7,  1980,  and  AFI  71-101, Volume  1,  Criminal  Investigations,  1  December  1999.    Counterintelligence  or  security investigative  personnel  shall  not  acquire  this  information.  The  organization  itself  shall  be considered a primary source of information.  