 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  Incorporating Change 1, 14 April 2015 LAW   JUDGE ADVOCATE CONTINUATION PAY (JACP) PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the E-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:   There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/JAXE  Supersedes:   AFI51-1301, 1 July 2004  Certified by: AF/JAX  (Colonel Tonya Hagmaier) Pages: 11   This  instruction  sets  eligibility  requirements  and  governs  the  judge  advocate  continuation  pay (JACP)  program  for  all  Air  Force  judge  advocates.  This  program  does  not  apply  to  Air  Force Reserve  or  Air  National  Guard  judge  advocates.  This  publication  implements  Air  Force  Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-13, Judge Advocate Incentive and Special Pay Programs.   This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act  of  1974.  Title  37  United  States  Code  (U.S.C.)  Section  321  authorizes  collection  and maintenance of the information; System of Records Notice, T7340, Defense Joint Military Pay System-Active  Component  applies.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  IMT  847s  from  the  field  through  Major  Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN  33-363),  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This interim change revises AFI 51-1301 by delegating JACP authority from the Judge Advocate General  to  the  Director,  Professional  Development  Directorate,  aligning  the  Air  Force  JAG Corps  with  sister  Services.    The  memo  also  updates  recoupment  and  active  duty  service commitment  guidance  to  conform  to  current  law  and  policy.    A  margin  bar  (|)  indicates  newly revised material.   2  AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  Opening  Paragraph.    This  instruction  sets  eligibility  requirements  and  governs  the  judge advocate continuation pay (JACP) program for all Air Force judge advocates. This program does not  apply  to  Air  Force  Reserve  or  Air  National  Guard  judge  advocates.  This  publication implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  51-13,  Judge  Advocate  Incentive  and  Special Pay Programs. This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.   This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act  of  1974.  Title  37  United  States  Code  (U.S.C.)  Section  321  authorizes  collection  and maintenance of the information; System of Records Notice, T7340, Defense Joint Military Pay System-Active  Component  applies.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  IMT  847s  from  the  field  through  Major  Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records, and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  This  publication  requires  collecting  and maintaining  information  protected  by  the  Privacy  Act  of  1974,  5  U.S.C.  Section  552a.    The applicable  System  of  Records  Notices  (SORN)  are  F033  AF  B,  Privacy  Act  Request  File  and F051  AFJA  C,  Judge  Advocate  Personnel.    Forms  affected  by  the  Privacy  Act  have  an appropriate Privacy Act statement.   The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008    3  Chapter 1  PROGRAM ELEMENTS  1.1.  Determining  Eligibility.  The Professional  Development  Directorate, Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF/JAX), determines whether a judge advocate is eligible to receive JACP.  To be eligible for JACP, a judge advocate must: 1.1.1.  Be an Air Force officer on full-time active duty.   1.1.2.  Be  qualified,  designated,  and  serving  as  a  judge  advocate  as  defined  in  10  U.S.C.  § 801.   1.1.3.  Have  completed  the  active  duty  service  commitment  (ADSC)  incurred  upon  initial entry into The Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the United States Air Force.   1.1.4.  Not have an approved retirement or separation date (approved retirement or separation dates may be withdrawn prior to submitting an application for JACP).   1.1.5.  Not have participated in the Funded Legal Education Program.   1.1.6.  Be within an eligibility window listed in Table 1.1. 1.2.    JACP Active Duty Service Commitment.   1.2.1.  Judge  advocates  with  approved  JACP  contracts  incur  an  ADSC  equal  to  the  JACP contract length. For example, judge advocates who enter into two-year JACP contracts incur two-year  ADSCs;  and  judge  advocates  entering  into  four-year  contracts  incur  four-year ADSCs. Unless  otherwise specified in  Air Force  Instructions, JACP ADSCs will be served concurrently with any non-JACP ADSCs and consecutively to any existing JACP ADSC.   1.2.2.  Judge  advocates  entering  into  JACP  contracts  are  not  guaranteed  continued  active duty  military  service.  For  example,  a  judge  advocate  who  has  been  twice  deferred  for promotion  may  be  separated  before  fulfilling  his  or  her  JACP  ADSC.  The  recoupment provisions in paragraph 1.4 will apply.   1.3.    JACP  Contract  Payment  Rates,  Length,  and  Proration.  Eligible  judge  advocates  may receive  not  more  than  $60,000  in  JACP  payments.  Payment  of  applicable  federal  and  state income taxes is the responsibility of the JACP recipient. All payments made will be in lump sum amounts in accordance with Table 1.1. Table 1.1.  JACP Contract Availability.  Status of Judge Advocate (Eligibility Window)   Contract Length Available   Lump Sum Amount Paid for Contract   If No JACP Application Submitted During Eligibility Window     4  AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  Status of Judge Advocate (Eligibility Window)   Contract Length Available   Lump Sum Amount Paid for Contract   2 years   $20,000   If No JACP Application Submitted During Eligibility Window   Eligible for $40,000 contract at 6 years TAFCS   4 years   $40,000   No further eligibility   3 years   $30,000   No further eligibility   2 years   $20,000   No further eligibility   Contact AF/JAX   Contact AF/JAX   Contact AF/JAX   Has completed 4 years TAFCS and is within 30 days before or 30 days after completion of initial ADSC incurred upon entry into the JAG Corps (see Note 1)   Is within 30 days before or 30 days after 6 years TAFCS    Is within 30 days before or 30 days after 7 years TAFCS and has not entered into a JACP contract previously (see Note 2)    Is within 30 days before or 30 days after 8 years TAFCS and has not entered into a JACP contract previously (see Note 2)    Has existing JACP contract that was signed between 1 October 2001 and 30 June 2004     NOTE: 1.    This  option  applies  only  to  judge  advocates  accessed  into  the  JAG  Corps  through  the Direct  Appointment  Program,  One-Year  College  Program,  Graduate  Law  Program,  or Educational  Delay  Program  or  who  otherwise  enter  the  JAG  Corps  with  no  prior commissioned service. 2.    This  option  only  applies  to  judge  advocates  accessed  into  the  JAG  Corps  with  prior commissioned service who enter the JAG Corps through intraservice or interservice transfer, the  Direct  Appointment  Program,  the  Excess  Leave  Program,  recall,  and  any  other  such program (except for the Funded Legal Education Program) where the judge advocate enters the JAG Corps with prior commissioned service. AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008    5  1.4.  JACP  Recoupment.  Judge  advocates  who  fail  to  complete  their  ADSC  are  subject  to recoupment, unless waived by the Secretary, of a prorated portion of the cost of the continuation pay IAW Title 37 United States Code Section 373. 1.5.  Release from JACP-Incurred ADSC.  A judge advocate seeking to separate from the Air Force prior to completing a JACP ADSC must submit a waiver request in accordance with AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC). 1.6.  Director,  Professional  Development  Directorate  (AF/JAX).  The  Director,  Professional Development Directorate, will administer the continuation pay program.  The Director approves or  disapproves  continuation  pay  contracts  and,  where  appropriate,  grants  exceptions, modifications or waivers.   6  AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  Chapter 2  APPLYING FOR JACP  2.1.    Judge  Advocates.  Review  this  instruction  before  requesting  counseling  from  JACP supervisors.  JACP  is  not  an  entitlement,  and  its  provision  is  subject  to  the  approval  of  TJAG. While  AF/JAX  will  attempt  to  contact  JACP-eligible  judge  advocates  concerning  JACP,  the burden rests on the individual judge advocate to confirm JACP eligibility with AF/JAX.   2.1.1.  Judge  advocates  who  meet  the  requirements  of  paragraph  1.1.  become  eligible  for JACP in  accordance with  Table 1.1.  Eligible judge advocates may  apply  for JACP through the  Continuation  Pay  Management  System  (CPMS).  The  applicant  will  then  print  out  a contract  through  CPMS,  sign  it,  and  forward  it  by  fax  or  scanned  copy  to  AF/JAX  for signature  by  the  Director,  Professional  Development  Directorate.    JAX  may  prescribe alternate procedures on a case-by-case basis. 2.2.    Processing JACP Applications.   2.2.1.  JACP  Supervisor.  When  a  judge  advocate  applies  for  JACP,  CPMS  sends  the application to the applicant’s JACP supervisor for coordination (see  Attachment  1 - Terms for examples of JACP supervisors). Upon notification, the JACP supervisor will enter CPMS and recommend the application be approved or disapproved.   2.2.2.  Recommending Disapproval.   2.2.2.1.  Reasons  for  recommending  disapproval  of  a  judge  advocate’s  request  include, but are not limited to the following:   2.2.2.1.1.  Potential  or  ongoing  criminal  investigation  by  military  or  civilian authorities.   2.2.2.1.2.  Potential  or  ongoing  involuntary  separation  action  under  AFI  36-3206, Administrative  Discharge  Procedures  for  Commissioned  Officers,  or  AFI  36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers.   2.2.2.1.3.  Misconduct  or substandard duty  performance  rendering the officer  a poor candidate for retention on active duty.   2.2.2.2.  Select the disapproval option in CPMS only after contacting AF/JAX. Prepare a memorandum  explaining  why  the  judge  advocate’s  JACP  application  should  be disapproved (see Attachment 2), and attach any pertinent documents.   the  reasons  for 2.2.2.3.  The  applicant  must  be  counseled  on the  disapproval recommendation.  The  JACP  supervisor  recommending  that  a  JACP  application  be disapproved must provide the applicant with a copy of the disapproval memorandum and have  the  applicant  sign  a  written  acknowledgment  of  receipt.  Applicants  may  submit  a rebuttal  to  the disapproval  memorandum  within 5 duty days. The JACP supervisor may grant  reasonable  extensions  to  the  5-duty  day  response  time  period.  If  no  rebuttal  is received  within  5  duty  days,  or  approved  extension  thereof,  the  applicant  forfeits  any opportunity  to  respond.  If  the  applicant  provides  a  rebuttal  to  the  disapproval memorandum, the JACP supervisor may further comment on the merits of the applicant's submission. However, if the JACP supervisor includes additional matters not previously AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008    7  provided to the applicant, the applicant must be provided a copy of the new information and  allowed  an  additional  5  duty  days the  disapproval recommendation  documents  and  rebuttal  (if  any),  through  all  intermediate  levels  of  the Air  Force  judge  advocate  supervisory  chain  to  the  Director,  Professional  Development Directorate, for final action. to  respond.  Forward 2.2.3.  Judge Advocate Supervisory Chain. After the applicant’s JACP supervisor coordinates on  the  application,  CPMS  forwards  the  application  through  the  remainder  of  the  judge advocate  supervisory  chain  for  coordination.  In  most  instances,  this  includes  the  general court-martial convening authority staff judge advocate and the MAJCOM or equivalent staff judge  advocate.  Each  attorney  in  the  judge  advocate  supervisory  chain  will  review  the forwarded  application  and  recommend  its  approval  or  disapproval.  If  at  any  point  in  the judge advocate supervisory chain a recommendation for disapproval is made, the provisions of  paragraph  2.2.2  shall  apply  with  respect  to  the  individual  making  the  initial  disapproval recommendation.   2.2.4.  AF/JAX. As the office of primary responsibility, AF/JAX will do the following:   2.2.4.1.  Verify that each applicant is eligible for JACP and that each contract is complete and accurate before final action. 2.2.4.2.  Forward  all  approved  JACP  contract  payment  information  to  the  Defense Finance and Accounting Service.   2.2.4.3.  Update ADSCs as required upon approval of the contract. 2.2.4.4.  Retain  completed  (approved  and  disapproved)  JACP  contracts  and  all  allied documents in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.     8  AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  Chapter 3  ADOPTED FORMS  3.1.    AF Form 399, Request for Action on Implementation of Higher Headquarters Publications  AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  JACK L. RIVES, Major General, USAF The Judge Advocate General AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008    9   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  Attachment 1 References Title 10, U.S.C., Section 801  Title 37, U.S.C., Section 321  AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers  AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers  AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records  Abbreviations and Acronyms  ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment  AFI—Air Force Instruction  CPMS—Continuation Pay Management System  JACP—Judge Advocate Continuation Pay  JAG Corps—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps  JAX—Professional Development Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General  MAJCOM—Major Command  OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility  RDS—Records Disposition Schedule  TAFCS—Total Active Federal Commissioned Service  TJAG—The Judge Advocate General  U.S.C.—United States Code  Terms  Continuation  Pay  Management  System—The  web-based  program  that  notifies  judge advocates of their JACP eligibility, allows judge advocates to apply for JACP, and forwards the application through the judge advocate supervisory chain for coordination.  JACP  Approval  Authority—The  Director,  Professional  Development  Directorate,  is  the  final approval authority for JACP. JACP Contract—An eligible judge advocate’s written agreement, signed by the judge advocate, and accepted by the Director, Professional Development Directorate, on behalf of the Air Force in accordance with the terms of this AFI, to remain on active duty for a specified period of time in exchange for a certain amount of JACP.  Once signed, it becomes a legal agreement between the United States and the judge advocate.  The Director’s acceptance of the JACP contract is also approval of the JACP application.   10  AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  JACP  Supervisor—The  attorney  who  counsels  JACP  applicants  and  makes  the  initial recommendation for approval or disapproval of a judge advocate’s JACP application. Ordinarily, the  JACP  supervisor  is  the  JACP-eligible  judge  advocate’s  rater.  At  a  typical  Air  Force installation legal office, the SJA is normally the JACP supervisor. For judge advocates assigned as area defense counsel, the senior defense counsel is the JACP supervisor. For judge advocates assigned as senior defense counsel, the Chief, AFLOA/JAJD is the JACP supervisor. For those assigned  as  senior  trial  counsel,  the  Chief,  AFLOA/JAJG  is  the  JACP  supervisor.  For  those assigned to The Judge Advocate General’s School, the Commandant is the JACP supervisor. For all  other  judge  advocates  assigned  to  the  Air  Force  Legal  Operations  Agency  and  judge advocates assigned to Headquarters, United States Air Force, the respective division chief is the JACP  supervisor.  For  all  others,  the  Chief,  AF/JAX  is  the  JACP  supervisor.  In  atypical situations, AF/JAX will designate a JACP supervisor.   AFI51-1301  15 JANUARY 2008  Attachment 2 SAMPLE JACP DISAPPROVAL MEMORANDUM   11  [date] MEMORANDUM FOR [APPLICANT]  FROM: [JACP supervisor]  SUBJECT: Notification for Recommended Disapproval of Judge Advocate Continuation Pay (JACP)  I recommend disapproval of your request for JACP based on [explain reasons here]. A copy of this memorandum is attached to your contract and will be forwarded through intermediate judge advocate channels to AF/JAX. The Director, Professional Development Directorate, is the final decision authority for your JACP contract request.  You may submit a rebuttal to accompany my recommendation. You must submit your rebuttal to me within 5 duty days from the date you receive and endorse this memorandum. If you do not submit a rebuttal to me within 5 duty days, your JACP request and this disapproval memorandum will be forwarded through all intermediate judge advocate channels to AF/JAX for final processing.  Sign and date acknowledging that you received this memorandum. Indicate in your indorsement if you intend to submit a rebuttal.  [signature] [typed name and grade of JACP supervisor] [date] Attachment(s): [as required]  1st Ind [functional address symbol of applicant]  TO: [JACP supervisor]  I acknowledge receipt of your recommended disapproval of JACP. I (will) (will not) submit a written rebuttal.   [signature] [typed name and grade of applicant] 