Administrative Changes to AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command  OPR:  AF/JAA  In the Table of Contents: -  The phrase “[to be inserted once draft is finalized]” is hereby deleted -  The Paragraph numbers are hereby moved over to the left margin -  The colon at the end of the paragraph titles are hereby deleted -  The title of paragraph 5 is hereby changed from “Chain of command” to -  The title of paragraph 9 is hereby changed from “Air” to “Air Reserve Component (ARC) “Chain of Command” Commanders”  References throughout to the term “Social Security Number,” “SSN,” or “last-four digits of the social security number [or SSN]” are hereby changed to “Department of Defense Identification number” or “DODID.”  Reference on page 9, the title of paragraph 5 is hereby changed to “Chain of Command.”  Reference in Table A2.1, Footnote 2, to paragraph 3.7.3 is hereby changed to paragraph 3.8.3.  29 MARCH 2016 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-604 11 FEBRUARY 2016 Law APPOINTMENT TO AND ASSUMPTION OF COMMAND  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AF/JAA  Supersedes:  AFI 51-604, 4 April 2006  Certified by: AF/JA  (Maj Gen Jeffrey A. Rockwell) Pages: 58  This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (AFMD)  1,  Headquarters  Air  Force (HAF) and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-6, Command and Administrative Proceedings.  It describes traditional principles of command authority and succession, and it provides guidance to  record  and  announce  appointments  to  and  assumptions  of  command.    It  applies  to  service members  and  units  in  the  Regular  Air  Force  (RegAF),  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR),  and  title  10 United  States  Code  (USC)  status  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  (ANGUS)  members and  units.    It  also  applies  to  members  and  units  of  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  performing duty under title 32, USC, to the extent it is consistent with the applicable state, commonwealth, or district’s military code or command polices.  It applies to Civil Air Patrol (CAP)-United States Air Force but does not apply to the CAP, the volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air Force (AF).  This instruction may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this instruction to  the  OPR  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF Forms 847 from the field through intermediate legal offices.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  number  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”) following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1, for a description of the authorities associated with  the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the OPR for non-tiered compliance items.  This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information  protected by  5 USC § 552a,  The Privacy Act  of  1974.  The authorities  to  collect  or  maintain  the  records  prescribed  in  the  publication  are  10  USC  §  8013, Secretary of the Air Force, and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts 2 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Relating to Individual Persons, as amended.  The applicable SORN, F033 AF PC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), is available at http://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.  Ensure that all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  instruction  are  maintained  in accordance  with  (IAW)  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  (IAW)  the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include  clearly  delineating  the  chain  of  command  (paragraph  5);  establishing  assumption  of command  as  a  default  if  a  commander  has  not  been  appointed  (paragraph  6);  requiring appointment  of  command  for  certain  10  USC  §  601  positions  (paragraph  8);  providing  more detailed guidance related to Air Reserve Component (ARC – including both the AFR and ANG) commanders  (paragraph  9);  including  remotely  piloted  aircraft  as  flying  units  (paragraph  10); modifying AF IMT 35, Announcement of Appointment to/Assumption of Command; establishing relief of command procedures (paragraph 14); providing examples of civilian directors’ authority (Attachment 2); and adding tiered waiver authorities IAW AFI 33-360. TABLE OF CONTENTS [to be inserted once draft is finalized]  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.  Overview:................................................................................................................   Roles and Responsibilities: .....................................................................................   Eligibility to Command: .........................................................................................   Characteristics of Command Leadership. ...............................................................   Chain of command: .................................................................................................   Succession to Command. ........................................................................................   Permanent and Temporary Succession to Command: ............................................   Special Rules: .........................................................................................................   Air ...........................................................................................................................  10.  Command of Flying Units. .....................................................................................  11.  Command and Staff. ...............................................................................................  12.  Announcement of Command. .................................................................................  13.  Correcting Erroneous Assumptions of or Appointments to Command. .................  14.  Relief of Command. ................................................................................................  3 3 4 9 9 10 13 14 16 17 18 20 22 22 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 2— COMMANDER AND CIVILIAN DIRECTOR AUTHORITIES Attachment 3— INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF FORM 35 Attachment 4— SAMPLE LETTER FOR RELIEF OR SUSPENSION OF COMMAND 3 25 32 48 58      1.  Overview:  Command  is  central  to  all  military  action  and  unity  of  command  is  central  to unity of effort. 2.  Roles and Responsibilities: 2.1.  The key elements of command are authority, accountability, and responsibility. 2.2.  The Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), as the head of the Department of the Air Force, is responsible for and has the authority necessary to conduct all affairs of the AF. 2.3.  For  purposes  of  operational  control  of  forces  assigned  to  combatant  commands,  the chain  of  command  runs  from  the  President  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (SecDef)  to  the Combatant Commanders as specified in 10 USC § 164. 2.3.1.  SecAF is responsible for the administration and support of AF forces assigned or attached to combatant commands. 2.4.  For  purposes  other  than  operational  control  of  AF  forces  assigned  to  combatant commands, the chain of command runs from the President to SecDef to SecAF and thereafter as prescribed in AFPD 51-6 and this instruction. 2.4.1.  SecAF  exercises  these  command  and  administrative  authorities  through  the Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), and the Air Staff over forces not assigned to the combatant commanders IAW 10 USC §§ 8013-8039 and as delegated in HAF Mission Directives. 2.4.2.  The Director, Administrative Law, The Office of the Judge Advocate General (AF/JAA) is delegated authority to review and concur on requests for waivers on behalf of  the  Approving  Authority  for  all  compliance  items  in  this  AFI  marked  with  a  T-1 waiver authority. 2.4.3.  Director,  Air  Force  General  Officer  Matters  Office  (AF/DPG) will notify the servicing  A1  and  AF/JAA  of  Senate  confirmation  and  expected  dates  of  change  of command for 10 USC § 601 positions. 2.4.4.  The appointing authority is responsible for performing the duties assigned to the orders  publishing  activity/organization  in  AFI  33-328,  Administrative  Orders,  for  all commanders  appointed  within  his/her  authority.    (T-1)    This  responsibility  may  be delegated to the unit to be commanded or the Force Support Squadron (FSS) or A1 office servicing the unit to be commanded. 2.4.5.  The  unit  to  be  commanded is  responsible for performing the duties assigned to the  orders  publishing  activity/organization  in  AFI  33-328  for  all  orders  announcing  the appointment to or assumption of the unit’s command.  (T-1) 4 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 2.4.6.  The FSS or A1 office servicing the orders publishing activity/organization shall: 2.4.6.1.  Confirm  the  organizational  type  of  the  unit  to  be  commanded  and  confirm the unit is authorized to have a commander (T-3); 2.4.6.2.  Produce a report identifying the unit’s Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) code  and  subordinate  units’  PAS  codes  and  the  names,  grades,  date  of  rank,  and primary  Air  Force  Specialty  Codes  (AFSCs)  of  all  RegAF  and  ARC  officers  of  the proposed commander’s grade or higher who are assigned or attached to the unit to be commanded (T-3); 2.4.6.3.  Provide other organizational and personnel information requested by the unit and/or  the  legal  office  servicing  the  orders  publishing  activity/organization  to facilitate succession of command analysis (T-3); and 2.4.6.4.  Sign  AF  Form  35,  Announcement  of  Appointment  to/Assumption  of Command  (“Form  35”)  or  coordinate  on  memoranda  appointing  officers  to  or announcing assumptions of command, affirming that the unit is authorized to have a commander  IAW  AFI  38-101,  Air  Force  Organization,  and  that  the  officer  being named is assigned (see paragraph  3.4) to and eligible to command the unit.  Further, in  the  case  of  appointments,  the  FSS  or  A1  office  shall  confirm  there  is  no  officer assigned to the unit who is eligible to command and superior in  grade to  the officer being appointed.  In the case of assumptions, the FSS or A1 office shall confirm there is no officer assigned to the unit who is eligible to command and superior in rank to the officer assuming command.  (T-2) 2.4.7.  The legal office servicing the orders publishing activity/organization shall: 2.4.7.1.  Review information and documents provided by the servicing FSS or A1 to confirm proper rank structure and eligibility to command IAW this instruction (T-1); 2.4.7.2.  Confirm  the  proposed  appointing  authority  has  been  delegated  authority  to appoint commanders of the unit to be commanded IAW AFPD 51-6, this instruction, or other publication/memorandum (T-1); 2.4.7.3.  Assist  the  orders  publishing  activity/organization  with  completing  G-series orders, as needed (T-3); and 2.4.7.4.  Sign  Forms  35  or  coordinate  on  memoranda  appointing  officers  to  or announcing assumptions of command, affirming that those documents conform to the requirements of the law and this instruction (T-2). 3.  Eligibility to Command: 3.1.  Command is exercised by virtue of office and the special assignment of officers holding certain military grades and who are eligible to exercise command. 3.2.  A  commander  is  a  commissioned  officer  who,  by  virtue  of  grade  and  assignment, exercises primary command authority over an AF unit (and some non-units, by exception) as authorized by AFI 38-101, paragraphs 2.1. and 2.2., to have a commander. 3.3.  For purposes of this instruction, unless otherwise specified, the term “unit” will include those non-units identified in AFI 38-101 as being authorized to have a commander, such as AF Elements, sections, and detachments. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 5 3.4.  For purposes of this instruction, the term “assigned” will include: 3.4.1.  Formal  assignment  as  evidenced  on  permanent-change-of-station  (PCS)  or permanent-change-of-assignment  (PCA)  orders  and/or  the  unit  manning  document (UMD); 3.4.2.  Officers attached to a unit “for purposes of command” (see also paragraph  3.6.1); and 3.4.3.  Officers attached to expeditionary units and provisional units (see also paragraph  3.6.1.4). 3.5.  IAW 10 USC § 8074, only commissioned AF officers may command AF organizations.  (T-0)    This restriction addresses AF organizations only; it is not intended as a limitation on joint  service  commands.    On  a  joint  base,  if  a  non-AF  officer  is  assigned  as  the  military director  of  an  AF  unit,  command  authorities  related  to  that  unit  are  withheld  to  the  next superior  command  authority,  and  the  military  director  has  the  same  authorities  as  civilian directors IAW this instruction. 3.6.  AF Officers.  An officer may command a unit to which s/he is assigned or attached, in which  s/he  is  present  for  duty,  and  for  which  s/he  is  otherwise  eligible  and  authorized  to command. 3.6.1.  Attachment  “for  purposes  of  command”  may  occur  when  an  officer  is  sent  on temporary duty (TDY) to command a unit; is detailed elsewhere to command a unit; is to be  dual-hatted;  will  undertake  the  command  duties  of  the  gaining  unit  before  being relieved  from  duty  in  a  losing  unit;  and  in  those  situations  where  an  officer  may  be directed to command two different units, only one to which s/he is formally assigned. 3.6.1.1.  An  officer  assigned  to  one  unit  and  attached  to  another  for  purposes  of command  may  command  one  or  both  of  those  units  simultaneously  as  long  as  the officer meets all other requirements of this instruction. 3.6.1.2.  Indicate  the  officer  is  “attached  for  purposes  of  command”  on  the  officer’s TDY orders. 3.6.1.3.  If  the  officer  is  detailed  or  otherwise  attached  to  a  unit  and  does  not  have TDY orders, the officer’s superior commander shall draft a memorandum for record (MFR)  indicating  that  the  officer  is  being  detailed  (or  attached)  to  that  unit  for purposes of command. 3.6.1.4.  An  officer  who  is  otherwise  present  in  a  unit  as  a  result  of  TDY  orders  or detail  for  purposes  other  than  command  is  not  eligible  to  command  that  unit.  EXCEPTION:  Officers attached to expeditionary or provisional units are eligible to command  even  if  there  is  no  documentation  indicating  that  the  officer  has  been attached for purposes of command. 3.6.2.  An officer assigned to a subordinate unit is eligible to command all superior units (to  include  command  of  a  parent  unit  that  directly  administers  subordinate  units, detachments, or operating locations) of which the subordinate unit is a component, except as limited by law, this instruction (see, e.g., paragraph 8), or if the officer has otherwise been declared ineligible to command. 6 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 3.6.3.  An  officer  who  is  present  for  duty  in  accordance  with  AFI  36-2134,  Air  Force Strength Accounting Duty Status Program, is considered present for duty for purposes of command. 3.6.3.1.  Except  as  may  be  established  by  AF  policy  or  as  directed  by  a  superior competent authority, an officer need not be physically present to be “present for duty” for the purposes of command.  Instead, an officer in reasonable communication with the unit may be considered present for duty. 3.6.3.2.  Being  in  a  leave  status  and/or  temporarily  away  from  the  unit  commanded does  not  automatically  result  in  loss  of  command  authority.    But  see  paragraph  3.6.6.3 3.6.4.  Grade and Rank  Considerations.  An officer  cannot  command  another officer of higher grade who is present for duty and eligible to command, but may be appointed to command another officer of the same grade but higher rank as provided in paragraph  6.1, and  its  subparagraphs.    Only  the  senior  AF  officer  in  both  grade  and  rank  who  is otherwise eligible to command may assume command, as provided in paragraph  6.2, and its subparagraphs.  See Attachment 1 for definitions of grade and rank. 3.6.4.1.  An  officer  who  is  assigned  to  duty  in  a  unit  which  s/he  is  eligible  to command but which is commanded by another officer of the same grade, but of lower rank, is subject to the command authority of the appointed officer of lower rank (See 10 USC § 749).  (T-0) 3.6.4.2.  Ensure all grade and rank determinations include all assigned ANG and AFR officers as well as those attached for purposes of command to the unit.  Such officers become present for duty and may be eligible to command the unit if they are placed on active duty orders (other than for training) for 90 days or more. 3.6.4.3.  See  10  USC  § 741  for  guidance  on  multi-service  command  grade  and  rank considerations. 3.6.4.4.  Where  blanket  orders  or  policy  attaches  all  personnel  to  another  unit  for purposes  of  command  action,  such  orders  affect  only  officers  whose  grade  is equivalent to or below the commander of the unit to which s/he is attached.  Officers who  are  senior  in  grade  remain  assigned  and  attached  to  the  superior  command authority; the  superior  command  authority,  however,  may  delegate  his/her administrative authorities over those officers IAW law, policy, and paragraph  11.7 3.6.4.5.  To  avoid  grade  and  rank  inversions,  a  senior  officer  who  is  not  present  for duty or is not eligible to command may be assigned to another unit with a commander senior to  that officer in  grade and/or  rank for purposes of command or action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).  An officer who is senior in grade to the  chosen  commander,  but  otherwise  present  for  duty  and/or  eligible  to  command, shall be reassigned to another unit with a commander who is equivalent to or senior in grade to that officer.  (T-1)  Such reassignments help prevent inadvertent assumption of command, invalidation of appointment orders, or other grade/rank inversion errors. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 7 3.6.5.  Officers  prohibited  from  command  by  superior  competent  authority  are  not eligible to command.  This provision shall not be used simply to facilitate an officer more junior in grade or rank to assume or be appointed to command the unit.  (T-1) 3.6.6.  Limitations on Eligibility to Command. 3.6.6.1.  A retired officer shall not command unless recalled to active duty (10 USC § 750).  (T-0) 3.6.6.2.  Frocked  officers  have  no  legal  authority  based  on  their  frocked  grade  (10 USC §§ 777 & 777a).  (T-0)  Command succession questions must be resolved using the  frocked  officer’s  permanent  grade,  not  his/her  frocked  grade.    Frocked  officers shall  sign  all  documents  evidencing  an  exercise  of  the  officer’s  command  authority using their permanent legal grade, not their frocked grade, in the signature block.  (T-1) 3.6.6.3.  An  officer  on  terminal  leave,  other  leave  pending  retirement,  or  permissive TDY  status,  who  is  not  expected  to  return  to  the  unit  for  duty  other  than  to  sign  in from that status to go into a successive leave status, is not considered present for duty and is not eligible to command. 3.6.6.4.  An  officer  suspended  from  command  under  paragraph    14.3  who  remains assigned to  the formerly-commanded unit is not  eligible to command during his/her period of suspension. 3.6.6.5.  Officers  assigned  to  HAF  cannot  assume  command  of  personnel,  unless competent authority specifically directs otherwise. 3.6.6.6.  An  officer  quartered  on  an  AF  installation,  but  assigned  to  an  organization not  charged  with  operating  the  installation,  cannot  assume  command  of  the installation by virtue of seniority. 3.6.6.7.  Chaplains cannot assume or be appointed to command (10 USC § 8581).  (T-0)    They  do  have  the  authority  to  give  lawful  orders  and  exercise  functions  of supervision, control, and direction. 3.6.6.8.  Judge  advocates  may  be  appointed  to  or  assume  command  only  with  the express authorization of The Judge Advocate General.  Judge advocates may assume command as the senior ranking member among a group of prisoners of war or under emergency or field conditions.   3.6.6.9.  An  officer  designated  as  a  medical,  dental,  veterinary,  medical  service,  or biomedical sciences officer, or as a nurse, cannot exercise command except of those units  and  installations  whose  primary  mission  involves  health  care  or  the  health professions (See 10 USC §§ 8067 & 8579).  (T-0) 3.6.6.10.  Only  officers  designated  as  a  medical,  dental,  veterinary,  medical  service, or  biomedical  sciences  officer,  or  as  a  nurse,  can  command  units  and  installations whose primary mission involves health care or the health professions (See 10 USC §§ 8067 & 8579).  (T-0) 3.6.6.11.  Students cannot command an AF school, or sub-unit thereof. 8 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 3.6.6.12.  Patients assigned or attached to a unit for the primary purpose of receiving medical treatment (e.g., “patient” squadrons) are not eligible to assume command of the unit. 3.6.6.13.  Inmates,  parolees,  and  members  on  appellate  leave  are  ineligible  to command. 3.6.6.14.  An officer assigned to a detachment or operating location is not eligible to assume command of the parent unit if doing so would require that officer to function as an installation commander at the location of the parent unit.  However, a superior competent  authority  may  appoint  an  eligible  officer  at  a  detachment  or  operating location to command the parent unit, and as a consequence, the installation. 3.6.6.15.  Officers restricted from or not eligible to command retain the power to give lawful  orders  and  to  exercise  all  the  other  aspects  of  officership,  except  as  may  be restricted by superior competent authority. 3.7.  Enlisted.  Enlisted members cannot exercise command (10 USC § 8074).  (T-0)   3.8.  Civilian Employees.  Although they may lead certain units (see AFI 38-101 for specific unit  restrictions),  hold  supervisory  positions,  supervise,  and  provide  work  direction  to military  members  and  civilian  personnel  within  their  unit  or  defined  sphere  of  supervision, civilian employees cannot command AF units or AF personnel in any duty status. 3.8.1.  IAW  AFI  38-101,  when  a  civilian  employee  is  designated  to  lead  a  unit,  that individual  will  be  the  director  of  that  unit.    Civilians  designated  to  such  positions  must meet  the  requirements  specified  in  AFI  38-101.    Civilian  directors  are  prohibited  from using  the  term  “commander”  in  any  official  manner  or  correspondence,  or  to  describe their position.    (T-1) 3.8.2.  Except as required by law (e.g., the UCMJ) or controlling superior authority (e.g., Department of Defense [DoD] guidance, instruction by a superior commander), a civilian director  is  authorized  to  perform  all  functions  normally  requiring  action  by  a  unit commander of like position and authority.  Attachment 2 provides a non-exhaustive list applying this rule to the various authorities provided by legal authorities (statute, code of federal  regulations,  DoD,  and  Service  regulations).    NOTE:    Attachment  2  is  intended only as a reference; it is not authoritative.  The underlying authorities and servicing staff judge  advocate  should  be  consulted  whenever  issues  regarding  civilian  directors’ authorities arise. 3.8.3.  Units led by civilian directors will not have commanders, section commanders, or detachment commanders.  Members of a civilian-led unit or its subordinate units may not assume command of the unit.  However, alternative arrangements for functions for which the law requires a commander will be established by competent command authority.  (T-1)  This commander requirement may be accomplished by attaching military members of civilian-led  units  to  a  unit  led  by  a  commander.    In  the  absence  of  such  an  attachment, members of civilian-led units will be commanded by the commander at a command level immediately  above  the  civilian-led  unit.    (T-1)    Because  members  of  civilian-led  units may  not  assume  command,  a  succession  plan  for  leadership  of  the  unit  should  be established in the event the civilian director is incapacitated. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 9 3.8.4.  Units  subordinate  to  a  unit  led  by  a  civilian  director  may  have  a  military commander.    In  that  circumstance,  all  military  commander  duties  would  flow  from  the next command level above the civilian-led unit.  For example, a group led by a civilian director may have subordinate squadrons led by military commanders.  In such cases, the wing  commander  would  perform  any  military  commander  duties  the  group  civilian director is unable to perform for the squadron members in the subordinate units. 4.  Characteristics of Command Leadership. 4.1.  Command  authority  empowers  a  military  commander  to  assign  missions  and  duties  to subordinates and demand accountability for their attainment.  Authority is never absolute; the extent of authority is limited by the establishing authority, directives, and law. 4.2.  Commanding  officers  and  civilian  directors  are  accountable  for  effectively  using available  resources  for  organizing,  directing,  coordinating,  and  controlling  the  employment of  forces  for  the  accomplishment  of  assigned  missions.    The  expected  conduct  of commanding  officers  and  their  detailed  duties  and  responsibilities  are  set  forth  in  AFI  1-2, Commanders’ Responsibilities.  Civilian directors should meet the same conduct and detailed responsibilities  set  forth  in  AFI  1-2.    IAW  AFI  1-2,  commanding  officers  and  civilian directors are required to take all necessary and proper measures, under the laws, regulations, and customs of the AF, to promote and safeguard the morale, the physical well-being, and the general welfare of personnel under their command/leadership  as well as ensuring personnel training, readiness, mobilization, and demobilization. 4.3.  Commanding  officers  and  civilian  directors  are  responsible  and  accountable  for accomplishing  assigned  missions  and  establishing  the  leadership  climate  of  the  unit; developing  disciplined  and  cohesive  units,  thereby  setting  the  parameters  within  which command  will  be  exercised;  setting  the  tone  for  social  and  duty  relationships  within  the command; and otherwise complying with AFI 1-2. 4.4.  An  officer  who  succeeds  to  command  assumes  responsibility  for  all  orders  in  force  at the  time  and  for  all  public  property  and  funds  pertaining  to  that  command.    A  civilian employee who is designated to succeed to a unit’s directorship assumes responsibility for all policies and directives in force at the time and for all public property and funds pertaining to that unit. 5.  Chain of command: 5.1.  As  prescribed  in  AFPD  51-6,  the  chain  of  command  in  the  AF  typically  runs  from SecAF to commanders of the AF major commands (MAJCOMs) and thereafter as prescribed by  the  MAJCOM  commander  and  authorized  by  AFI  38-101.    Typically,  command  flows from  MAJCOM  commanders  to  their  subordinate  numbered  air  force  (NAF)  or  center commander(s) and from NAF or center commanders to their subordinate unit commanders. 5.2.  SecAF has direct command authority over all AF MAJCOM, HAF direct reporting unit (DRU), and HAF forward operating agency (FOA) commanders; the Commander of the Air Force District of Washington (AFDW/CC); and all AF lieutenant generals and generals who are not assigned to a MAJCOM or a combatant commander. 5.3.  SecAF  exercises  these  command  and  administrative  authorities  through  the  Secretariat and Air Staff.  (AFMD 1, para 2.1.) 10 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 5.3.1.  CSAF  is  the  principal  military  advisor  to  SecAF  and  acts  as  the  agent  of  the SecAF in executing responsibilities under 10 USC § 8033. 5.3.2.  CSAF presides over the Air Staff in its execution of responsibilities assigned to it by law and under AFMD 1.  (10 USC §8031) 5.3.3.  As  specified  in  AFMD  1  and  HAFMD  1-4,  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force,  the commanders of MAJCOMs, AFDW, and the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center, and the Superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy report to CSAF.  (T-1)   Other HAF DRUs and FOAs may report to HAF officials as specified in mission directives and approved organizational change requests. 5.3.4.  Commanders  of  AF  forces  are  responsible  to  CSAF  for  the  administration, training,  and  readiness  of  their  units.    (T-1)    (Joint  Publication  [JP]  1,  Doctrine  for  the Armed Forces of the United States). 5.4.  The  Senior  Air  Force  Officer  (SAFO)  of  a  unified  command,  combined  task  force,  or Activity Outside the Air Force (as defined in Attachment 1) is a commander for purposes of imposing  nonjudicial  punishment  on  AF  members  assigned  to  that  organization  even  if  the AF  Element  of  that  organization  has  not  been  formally  designated  as  a  unit  and  the  SAFO has  not  formally  been  appointed  to  command.    See  also  AFI  51-202,  Nonjudicial Punishment, para 2.2.5. 5.5.  The  officer  serving  as  the  commander,  AF  forces  (COMAFFOR)  for  a  given contingency  operation  exercises  command  authority  over  those  AF  units  and  members deployed in support of that contingency who are assigned or attached to the COMAFFOR or a  subordinate  unit  of  the  AF  unit  (normally  an  Air  Expeditionary  Task  Force  [AETF]) commanded by the COMAFFOR, to include nonjudicial punishment authority.  As with  all commanders,  the  COMAFFOR  must  be  senior  or  equivalent  in  grade  to  all  AF  officers present for duty and eligible to command assigned or attached in support of the contingency.  (T-0) 6.  Succession  to  Command.  An  officer  succeeds  to  command  in  one  of  two  ways:    by appointment  or  by  assuming  command.    To  ensure  clear  lines  and  scope  of  authorities, appointment to command is preferred. 6.1.  Appointment to Command.  Appointment to command occurs by an act of the President, SecAF, or by his/her delegee(s).  SecAF has delegated appointment authority as set forth in AFPD  51-6.    Subordinate  delegations  of  authority  may  occur  through  AF  publications  or memoranda. 6.1.1.  Unless  otherwise  restricted  by  superior  competent  authority,  each  commander subordinate to SecAF may appoint subordinate commanders within his/her command. 6.1.2.  When two or more officers of the same grade are assigned or attached to the same unit,  are  eligible  to  command,  and  are  senior  in  grade  to  any  other  officer  assigned  or attached  to  that  unit  who  are  present  for  duty  and  eligible  to  command,  the  President, SecAF, or his/her delegee(s) may appoint any of the officers of the same highest grade to command, without regard to rank in that grade.  (See 10 USC § 749) 6.1.3.  If  one  or  more  officers  senior  in  grade  (but  not  necessarily  rank),  eligible  to command and present for duty, are assigned to an AF unit, superior competent authority AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 11 may not appoint any other officer to that same unit who is in a lower grade, to command that  unit.    Before  appointing  or  allowing  an  officer  who  is  in  a  lower  grade  to  assume command, superior competent authority must reassign from the unit any officer senior in grade,  present  for  duty,  and  eligible  to  command  to  whom  command  will  not  be extended.  (T-1)  A common solution is to reassign officers in the superior grade  to the next higher level of command and then detail the senior officer to perform duties in the subordinate unit without assignment or attachment to the lower unit.  It is recommended that any solution designed to enable a junior in grade officer to be appointed or to assume command be documented in writing. 6.1.4.  When appointing an officer to command, superior competent  command authority shall  specify  in  the  appointment  order  or  a  separate  memorandum  (referenced  on  the appointment order) any command authorities that are being withheld.  (T-1)  Restrictions, if  any,  on  other  officers’  ability  to  assume  command  in  the  event  the  appointed commander becomes permanently or temporarily unavailable may also be imposed. 6.1.4.1.  For example:  “This appointment does not include authority to take action on master  sergeants  [or  E-7s]  and  above  for  nonjudicial  punishment,  involuntary discharge, promotion propriety actions, and demotions which will be withheld to the xx  OG/CC.    If  Lt  Col  Smith  becomes  permanently  or  temporarily  unavailable  to command, no officer assigned or attached to Detachment XX may assume command.  Succession to command shall be by appointment only.” 6.1.4.2.  If  assumption  of  command  is  not  permitted  and  the  appointed  commander becomes  permanently  or  temporarily  unavailable,  command  of  the  unit  reverts  back to the superior competent authority. 6.1.4.3.  If  a  superior  competent  command  authority  later  determines  that  additional or  different  restrictions  or  limitations  to  the  appointed  commander’s  authorities should  be  imposed,  such  restrictions  or  limitations  may  be  specified  in  a  new appointment order. 6.1.5.  Delegated  appointment  authority  may  be  redelegated  to  commanders  and  staff officers  in  subordinate  units.    Redelegation,  however,  must  be  to  a  colonel  or  higher (except  as  noted  in  paragraph    8.2  below,  in  relation  to  the  appointment  of  section commanders).  (T-1) 6.1.6.  Officers  cannot  appoint  themselves  to  command.    Commanders  cannot  appoint their own successors. 6.2.  Assumption  of  Command.    Assumption  of  command  is  a  unilateral  act  taken  under authority of law, Secretarial direction, and regulation. 6.2.1.  Unless prohibited by superior competent authority, when a commander of any AF unit  ceases  to  be  “present  for  duty,”  is  permanently  unavailable,  becomes  ineligible  to command,  is  relieved  or  suspended  from  duty,  missing,  dead,  or  otherwise  unable  to carry out  the incidents  and responsibilities of command, command of the unit passes as specified  in  AFPD  51-6  and  this  instruction to  the  senior  AF  officer  assigned  to  a  unit, who is present for duty and eligible to command.  See also paragraph  6.1.4.2 12 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 6.2.2.  Assumption  of  command  ensures  that  there  is  no  break  or  vacancy  in  the command of an AF unit, even absent official action by superior competent authority. 6.2.3.  The authority to assume command is inherent in that officer’s status as the senior officer in grade (and if the same grade as another officer, senior in rank), assigned to the unit,  and  eligible  to  command.    An  exception  to  this  rule  exists  for  non-units,  namely, detachments and sections.  Officers cannot assume command of a detachment or section; the commander must be appointed. 6.2.4.  An officer may assume command only of a unit to which that officer is  assigned by competent authority (see paragraph  3.4).  An officer attached to a unit whose orders do not say that the attachment is “for purposes of command” may not assume command.  But see paragraph  3.4.3 for expeditionary and provisional units. 6.2.5.  In the event that an officer is assigned to a unit (see paragraph  3.4), is present for duty and eligible to command, and is: 6.2.5.1.  Senior in  grade  to  any officer assigned (including the commander), then by operation  of  law  the  senior-in-grade  officer  assumes  command  and  the  assignment action alone affects a succession to command. 6.2.5.2.  Equal  in  grade  and  senior  in  rank  to  the  commanding  officer  who  had previously assumed command of the unit, then by operation of law the senior-in-rank officer  assumes  command  and  the  assignment  action  alone  affects  a  succession  of command. 6.2.5.3.  Equal  in  grade  and  senior  in  rank  to  the  commanding  officer  who  had previously  been  appointed  to  command,  then  the  assignment  action  alone  does  not affect a succession of command. 6.2.5.4.  Promoted  and  thereby  becomes  senior  in  grade  to  the  officer  who  had previously assumed or been appointed to command the unit, then by operation of law the promotion affects a succession of command. 6.2.6.  The  SAFO  assigned  to  an  AF  Element,  outside  the  AF,  may  assume  command IAW paragraph  6.2 6.2.7.  In  the  case  of  non-units  (i.e.,  detachments  and  sections)  that  are  within  an  AF organization, command succession under paragraph  6.2.5 causes the junior officer to be relieved of command and the senior-in-grade or  senior-in-rank officer to  assume a staff position  only.    The  senior  in  grade  or  senior  in  rank  officer  does  not  have  command authority unless and until s/he is appointed to command the non-unit. 6.3.  In  units  where  there  are,  or  there  is  expected  to  be  more  than  one  officer  of  the  same grade eligible to command and a superior competent authority desires continuity of command to remain with one specific officer from among all officers in the senior grade, regardless of the  relative  rank  to  other  officers  in  the  same  grade  who  are,  or  may  become,  eligible  to command  the  unit,  appointment  to  command  should  be  used  to  prevent  inadvertent  or unintended succession of command. 6.4.  Use a written order to announce and record all instances of command succession. 6.5.  Appointment to and assumption of command can be either permanent or temporary. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 13 7.  Permanent and Temporary Succession to Command: 7.1.  Permanent  succession  to  command,  by  appointment  or  assumption,  remains  in  effect until  superseded  by  a  subsequent  appointment  to  command  or  an  assumption  of  command triggered by an assignment or promotion event, even if the command is intended to be  only for a short period of time.  For example, an officer who becomes the commander during the interim between the last appointed commander and the next anticipated commander would be a  “permanent”  succession  to  command,  even  though  the  next  commander  has  already  been identified. 7.2.  Temporary  succession  to  command,  by  appointment  or  assumption,  is  the  appropriate succession  mechanism  when  the  commander  being  replaced  is  only  temporarily  absent  or disabled, and is expected to resume command. 7.2.1.  Except  in  urgent  cases,  an  officer  in  temporary  command  may  not  change  or cancel the standing orders of the permanent commander unless authorized to do so by the permanent commander or a higher level commander. 7.2.2.  When  the  temporarily  absent  or  disabled  commander  returns  to  his/her  duties,  if s/he is equal or senior in grade to any other officer then present for duty, assigned to the unit, and eligible to command, s/he: 7.2.2.1.  Regains  command  automatically  without  regard  to  precedence  of  rank  in grade, if s/he was appointed to command.  The returning commander, who had been appointed  to  command,  needs  no  new  appointment  orders  and  orders  announcing assumption of command need not be published. 7.2.2.2.  Will  not  regain  command  unless  appointed  as  the  commander,  if  s/he  had previously  assumed  command  and  during  his/her  absence  another  officer  who  is equal  in  grade  but  senior  in  rank  has  been  assigned  to  the  unit.    In  such  cases,  to regain command, the temporarily absent or disabled commander must be appointed to command. 7.2.3.  If, during the permanent commander’s temporary absence, another officer who is eligible  to  command  is  promoted  from  within,  or  assigned  to  the  unit,  and  is  senior  in grade  to  the  permanent  commander,  then  the  returning  permanent  commander  may  not resume command while the officer senior in grade remains assigned to the unit. 7.2.4.  Command During Short Absences: Except as may be required by AF-level policy other  than  this  instruction,  or  as  directed  by  a  superior  competent  authority,  absence  or disability  of  the  commander  for  short  periods  of  time  does  not  incapacitate  that commander  from  discharging  the  functions  of  command  and,  except  under  unusual circumstances,  does  not  warrant,  or  allow  for,  assumption  of  command  by  another officer. 7.2.4.1.  During  short  absences  or  disability  of  the  commander  which,  by  common practice  do  not  warrant  an  assumption  of  command,  at  the  direction  of  the commander,  the  commander’s  designated  representative  acts  for  the  commander  in the commander’s name, as is routinely done when the commander is present, unless precluded by paragraph  11.7.2  See also paragraph  7.4 14 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 7.3.  Appointment to or Assumption of Command Because of Death, Prolonged Absence, or Disability of Commander. 7.3.1.  Unless  prohibited  by  superior  competent  authority  (see  paragraphs    6.1.4  and  6.2.1), in the event of death, prolonged absence, or disability of the commander, the next senior  officer  assumes  command  unless  and  until  relieved  by  a  newly-assigned  senior officer or superior competent authority appointing another officer to command. 7.3.2.  Prolonged Absence or Disability.  It is not possible to establish a bright-line rule or  advance  determination  regarding  what  qualifies  as  a  prolonged  absence  or  disability sufficient  to  justify  appointment to  or assumption of  command by  another officer.   The expected length of the absence, deployment, or disability, the types of command actions and decisions that will be needed during the absence or disability, and the communication vehicles  available  for  use  during  the  commander’s  absence  or  disability  are  factors  that should be considered.   Leave or TDY status  alone (regardless  of the duration) does not render  a  commander  unable  to  command.    Normally,  however,  leave  or  TDY  status longer than ten days warrants consideration of the need for a temporary appointment or assumption  of  command.    Such  appointments  or  assumptions  should  normally  only  be done with the knowledge and consent of the absent or disabled commander. 7.4.  In  addition  to  the  traditional  principles  governing  appointment  to  and  assumption  of command as established by law, regulation, custom, and policy, a basic responsibility exists for  the  senior  officer  eligible  to  command  to  assume  command  temporarily,  even  if  the commander  is  not  definitively  declared  unavailable,  in  an  emergency  or  when  essential  to good  order  and  discipline,  except  when  specifically  prohibited  from  doing  so  by  superior competent authority.  (T-1) 8.  Special Rules: 8.1.  O-9 and O-10.  Special rules exist for positions designated under 10 USC § 601 for the grade of lieutenant general or general. 8.1.1.  Officers  assigned  to  positions  which  have  been  designated  by  the  President  as positions  of  importance  and  responsibility  in  accordance  with  10  USC  §  601  become eligible  to  assume  the  grade  of  lieutenant  general  or  general  by  virtue  of  their appointment to, and service in, those positions (although they need not necessarily carry that grade to be appointed to, or serve in, such positions). 8.1.2.  When the President nominates an officer for appointment to a designated 10 USC § 601 command position, and thereby nominates the officer for promotion to the three- or four-star grade associated with the particular command position to be filled, upon Senate confirmation  of  the  nomination,  the  officer  will  be  appointed  to  that  command  position and grade.  All MAJCOM and HAF DRU command appointments must be made by the SecAF,  CSAF  or  Vice  CSAF  (VCSAF).    NAF  and  center  commanders  (three-star)  will be  appointed  to  command  by  superior  competent  authority.    Except  as  provided  in paragraph  8.1.6, officers whose assignments require Presidential nomination and Senate confirmation  because  their  command  positions  have  been  designated  as  10  USC  §  601 positions will not assume command. 8.1.2.1.  Upon Senate confirmation and at the time the AF/DPG is able to determine with  reasonable  certainty  the  expected  date  of  a  change  of  command,  AF/DPG  will AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 15 notify the servicing A1 and AF/JAA.  The servicing A1 shall initiate an AF Form 35 for signature by SecAF, CSAF or VCSAF.  The servicing legal office will complete the required legal review and forward it to AF/JAA for review and further processing.  Completed  AF  Forms  35  shall  be  provided  to  the  servicing  A1  for  final  processing and maintenance. 8.1.3.  Because  these  officers  retain  their  grade  only  as  long  as  they  serve  in  their appointed  positions,  any  act  removing  them  from  their  position  will  effectively  vacate their grade, and they will revert to their former permanent grade (normally major general) unless  a  statutory  exception  applies.    (T-0)    (See  10  USC  §  601(b)  for  the  list  of exceptions).    Consequently,  three-  and  four-star  generals  appointed  to  or  assuming command  positions  designated  by  the  President  as  “positions  of  importance  and responsibility [which] carry the grade of general … or lieutenant general…” must always remain in command until relieved by superior competent authority, even during lengthy absences.  (T-1)  No other officer may temporarily assume or be appointed to command in  the  absence  of  the  incumbent  unless  first  authorized  by  the  appropriate  superior competent authority and coordinated with AF/DPG and AF/JAA. 8.1.4.  In  the  event  a  three-  or  four-star  commander  is  disabled  or  will  be  absent  for  a prolonged  period,  the  commander’s  designated  representative  must  notify  AF/DPG,  as soon as possible.  (T-1) 8.1.5.  Until  official  instructions  arrive,  the  commander’s  designated  representative continues to act for the commander in the commander’s name, as is routinely done when the commander is present. 8.1.6.  When  a  three-  or  four-star  MAJCOM,  three-star  NAF,  three-star  center,  or  HAF DRU commander becomes permanently unavailable and before another commander has been  nominated  by  the  President,  confirmed  by  the  Senate  under  the  provisions  of  10 USC  §  601,  and  appointed  to  the  position  in  accordance  with  paragraph    8.1.2  above, because  command  of  an  AF  unit  must  continue,  command  in  positions  designated  as positions of importance and responsibility follow the normal rules for appointment to and assumption of command. 8.1.6.1.  The  commander  so  succeeding  will  carry  the  title  of  commander  and  have the incidents of authority associated with command; however, that commander (who has not been nominated by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and appointed to the  higher  grade  by  competent  authority)  is  not  entitled  to  the  increased  grade bestowed by virtue of appointment to, or assumption of command of any 10 USC § 601 command position.  (T-0) 8.1.6.2.  In such a circumstance, a regular assumption of, or appointment to command announcement (AF Form 35) will be prepared IAW this AFI..  (T-1) 8.2.  Non-units.  Special rules also apply to detachment and section commanders. 8.2.1.  Because  detachments  and  sections  are  not  units,  their  commanders  do  not  have unit-specific  or  unit-unique  command  authorities.    Instead,  an  officer  in  command  of  a non-unit  exercises  only  those  command  authorities  delegated  by  the  superior  unit commander and such authorities are exercised on behalf of the superior unit commander.  16 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 See AFI 51-202 to determine the appellate authority for nonjudicial punishment imposed by a detachment or section commander. 8.2.2.  An  officer  cannot  assume  command  of  a  detachment  or  section.    Appoint detachment  and  section  commanders  on  orders  when  they  must  perform  command actions.  (T-1) 8.2.3.  If detachment and section commanders are not formally appointed, with published orders,  they  are  considered  staff  officers  and  cannot  impose  nonjudicial  punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ (see AFI 51-202). 8.2.4.  Detachment  commanders  must  be  appointed  by  a  group  commander  or  higher, unless  that  authority  has  been  properly  delegated  IAW  AFPD  51-6  and  this  instruction.  (T-1) 8.2.5.  The  commander  of  a  large  functional  unit  (squadron  or  above),  if  a  lieutenant colonel or higher grade, may appoint a section commander within the unit. 8.2.6.  The  commander  of  an  AF  Element,  if  a  lieutenant  colonel  or  higher  grade,  may appoint a section commander within the element. 8.2.7.  A  section  commander  is  not  required  to  have  a  higher  grade  or  rank  than  other officers  assigned  to  the  same  unit;  the  section  commander,  however,  may  only  be delegated command authority over personnel of the same or lower grade. 8.2.8.  IAW  AFI  38-101,  detachment  and  section  commanders  may  not  be  appointed within a unit led by a civilian director.  This restriction does not prevent officers within such units from being appointed as section commanders of the superior unit. 9.  Air  Reserve Component (ARC) Commanders 9.1.  Commanders of ARC units must comply with duty status and duty title requirements of AFI 38-101, paragraph 2.3.1., and this AFI.  (T-1) 9.1.1.  Commanders of AFR units must be in  a duty status  under title 10 of the USC to take any command action relating to the AFR unit and its members if a civilian director would be prohibited by law or DoD guidance from taking such actions (see Figure  A2.1 for reference).  (T-0) 9.1.2.  Commanders of ANG units must be in a duty status under title 10 or title 32 of the USC,  as  appropriate,  to  take  any  command  action  relating  to  the  ANG  unit  and  its members if a civilian director would be prohibited by law or DoD guidance from taking such actions (see Figure  A2.1 for reference).  (T-0) 9.1.3.  If  an  ARC  commander  also  serves  as  a  military  technician  in  the  unit  that  s/he commands: 9.1.3.1.  The duty title on his/her title 5 civilian position description will not include the word “commander”; (T-0) 9.1.3.2.  The  duties  assigned  in  his/her  civilian  position  description  may  follow  the guidance for civilian directors provided in AFI 38-101 and Attachment 2; AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 17 9.1.3.3.  Administrative command authorities not lawfully delegated to the officer in his/her role as a technician or to another member assigned to the unit are withheld to the next superior commander; and 9.1.3.4.  When serving in a military capacity under title 10 or title 32 of the USC, an ARC  member  (including  technicians  when  serving  in  military  status)  may  carry  out all incidents of command authorized by law and by superior command authority, but only over military members in  a duty status  under the same title of the  USC within his/her command.  ARC members in  military status  may also  exercise directive  and supervisory authority over civilian employees within his/her span of control.  (T-0) 9.2.  As a general rule, ARC officers must be on title 10 active duty (other than for training) orders for 90 days or more to command units of the RegAF.  This means the officer’s active duty  orders  must  be  for  a  period  of  90  days  or  more,  not  that  the  officer  actually  serve  90 days  or  more.    Thus,  an  officer  called  to  active  duty  for  a  90-day  period  or  more  may  be placed in command of a RegAF unit on the first day of his/her period of active duty service.  (T-1)  Subsequent curtailment of such orders to a period less than 90 days does not invalidate command during the period actually served. 9.2.1.  EXCEPTION:    The  COMAFFOR  or  delegee  may  authorize  ARC  officers  on active  duty  (other  than  for  training)  for  less  than  90  days  to  command  RegAF  units operating  under  the  COMAFFOR’s  authority.    This  authority  may  be  delegated  to  no lower the  commanders  of  Aerospace  Expeditionary  Wings  (AEWs)  for expeditionary units operating under their authority. than 9.3.  ANG  officers  may  be  dual-hatted  to  command  both  ANG  and  RegAF  units  if  such appointment complies with 32 USC § 325. 9.4.  RegAF officers may be granted a commission in the ANG to command an ANG unit or to be dual-hatted to command both ANG and RegAF units if such appointment complies with 32 USC § 315. 9.5.  RegAF  officers  and  ARC  officers  on  Extended  Active  Duty  IAW  AFI  36-2008, Voluntary  Extended  Active  Duty  (EAD)  for  Air  Reserve  Commissioned  Officers,  may  only command units of the AFR with AF/RE approval. 10.  Command  of  Flying  Units.  Any  unit  that  has  flying,  planning  and  directing  the employment of manned and remotely piloted aircraft as their primary mission is a flying unit. 10.1.  Only line of the AF officers with a current aeronautical rating, as defined by AFI 11-402,  Aviation  and  Parachutist  Service,  Aeronautical  Ratings  and  Aviation  Badges  (except flight surgeons) may command flying units. 10.1.1.  The  rated  officer  must  hold  a  currently  effective  aeronautical  rating  or crewmember certification, and must be qualified for aviation service in an airframe flown by the unit to be commanded.  (T-1) 10.1.1.1.  If an ANG or AFR unit is remissioned and/or assigned a new airframe, the commander must become qualified in at least one of the assigned airframes no later than the full operating capability (FOC) date for that unit or three years from the start of conversion, whichever occurs first.  (T-1) 18 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 10.1.1.2.  If  a  RegAF  unit  is  remissioned  and/or  assigned  a  new  airframe,  the commander must become qualified in at least one of the assigned airframes no later than the FOC date for that unit, or two years from the start of conversion, whichever occurs first.  (T-1) 10.1.2.  Command billets of flying units are considered to be and shall be coded as active flying positions with an aircrew position indicator (API) of 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, or 9, IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, Table 2.1.  (T-3) 10.1.3.  Officers from other military departments who have AF-equivalent crew-member ratings or certifications may command joint or consolidated flying training organizations IAW  appropriate  joint  guidance  and  applicable  interservice  agreements.    Within  the consolidated  flying  training  organization,  the  AF  personnel  will  be  commanded  by  the senior  AF  rated  line  officer,  IAW  this  instruction  and  AFI  38-101.    For  purposes  of military  justice  administration,  commanders  of  consolidated  flying  training  units  are subject  to  the  same  restrictions  applicable  to  joint  and  multiservice  commanders  under the provisions of Chapter 2, AFI 51-202. 10.2.  Units with Multiple Missions.  Certain types of organizations, such as air base wings or groups, have multiple missions that include responsibility for controlling and directing flying activities  or  clearing  aircraft  for  flight.    The  headquarters  and  staff  offices  of  these organizations  are  considered  non-flying  units;  therefore,  non-rated  officers  eligible  to command may command such units provided that: 10.2.1.  The commander of a subordinate flying unit (such as an operations squadron) or a director of operations and training is  delegated responsibility for the  flying portion of the mission.  If this authority is vested in a director of operations and training, that person must  meet  the  eligibility  requirements  for  command  of  a  flying  unit.    Delegate  this authority  by  special  order  signed  by  the  first  rated  superior  commander  in  the  chain  of command.   (T-1)   Consult  paragraph  12 and AFI 33-328  for orders formats,  and orders publishing guidance. 10.2.2.  Any AF officer eligible to command may command an organization in which the employment of aircraft is a support function or corollary to the unit’s primary mission.  If the commander does not meet the eligibility requirements for command of a flying unit, consolidate flying activities under the supervision of a subordinate officer who does meet such eligibility requirements. 11.  Command and Staff.  Units shall fully recognize and follow the principles of command and staff.    (T-0)    A  commander  exercises  control  through  subordinate  commanders,  principal assistants,  and  other  officers  to  whom  the  commander  has  delegated  authorities.    The organizational  structure  of  the  AF,  including  information  about  various  types  of  command,  is provided in AFI 38-101. 11.1.  Command and staff duty titles for units, civilian directors, and commanders in all three components must comply with AFI 38-101.  (T-1) 11.2.  IAW AFI 38-101: 11.2.1.  A  commander  is  an  officer  who  occupies  a  position  of  command  pursuant  to orders  of  appointment  or  by  assumption  of  command  IAW  this  instruction.    This AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 19 designation  is  used  in  all  AF  units  except  the  AF  Academy  and  units  led  by  civilian directors; it is also used in some non-units as outlined in AFI 38-101. 11.2.2.  Vice  commanders,  deputy  commanders,  on-scene  commanders,  non-unit  flight commanders,  and  troop  commanders,  while  acting  solely  in  such  capacity,  are  staff officers.  As such, officers in these positions are not required to be eligible to command.  Unless  otherwise  specifically  delegated  by  superior  competent  authority,  staff  officers have  no  command  functions.  They  assist  the  commander  through  advising,  planning, researching,  and  investigating.    These  officers  must  issue  all  directives  in  the commander’s name. 11.3.  Subject  to  paragraph    11.7,  a  commander  can  designate  subordinates,  including civilians, who are authorized to sign or act in the commander’s name. 11.4.  Any  officer  can  be  assigned  to  staff  positions  at  any  organizational  level,  except  (by policy) those positions directly concerned with the operation of manned and remotely piloted aircraft or where flying is a necessary additional duty, or except (under law) those functions in  the  AF  that  require  special  training  or  experience  such  as  chaplains,  judge  advocates,  or medical officers (See 10 USC § 8067). 11.5.  There is no title or position of “acting commander.”  The term “acting commander” is not authorized. 11.6.  The CSAF, Vice Chief of Staff, Deputy Chiefs of Staff, Assistant Chiefs of Staff, other heads  (military  or  civilian)  of  Air  Staff  “two-letter”  offices  or  other  staff  agencies,  and civilian leaders and military officers within the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Office  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  and  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  are  not commanders.    However,  as  senior  leaders,  senior  staff,  and  supervisors,  these  directors  and officers are authorized to perform functions identified in AF policy as requiring action by the respective  unit  commander,  as  long  as  those  actions  are  not  reserved  specifically  to  a “commander”  by  law  (e.g.,  the  UCMJ)  or  controlling  superior  legal  authority  (e.g.,  DoD guidance).    Attachment  2  provides  a  non-exhaustive  list  applying  this  rule  to  the  various authorities provided by law and other instructions.  NOTE:  Attachment 2 is intended only as a reference.  It is not authoritative. 11.7.  Delegation  of  Duties:  Delegation  of  duties  and  authority  to  staffs  is  generally authorized. 11.7.1.  Except as stated in paragraph  11.7.2, commanders (including SAFOs described in  paragraph    5.4)  may  delegate  administrative  duties  or  authority  to  members  of  their staff or subordinate commanders as needed.  However, delegating duties incident to the discharge  of  responsibilities  does  not  relieve  the  commander  of  the  responsibility  to exercise command supervision.  Likewise, although commanders may delegate authority to  accomplish  aspects  of  the  mission,  they  may  not  absolve  themselves  of  the responsibility for attaining the mission. 11.7.2.  Do not delegate the following duties: 11.7.2.1.  Duties  specifically  imposed  on  commanders  by  federal  law,  such  as  those specified under the UCMJ, Appropriation Acts, and statutory provisions shall not be delegated to staff officers.  (T-0) 20 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 11.7.2.2.  Duties that, by direction of higher headquarters, are not delegable. 11.7.2.3.  Duties that should not be delegated because of their obvious importance or because of special existing local conditions. 11.7.3.  When  a  detachment  or  section  commander;  principal  assistant;  or  other  staff officer exercises non-judicial punishment (Article 15) authority delegated to him/her by a superior  commander,  the  officer  is  exercising  the  authority  of  the  superior  commander.  Appellate authority related to the Article 15 issued by these officers shall follow AFI 51-202.    Appellate  authority  related  to  an  Article  15  issued  by  a  SAFO  described  in paragraph  5.4 rests with the SAFO’s superior commander. 11.7.4.  See Attachment 2 for more specific delegation recommendations. 12.  Announcement  of  Command.  All command succession shall be announced and recorded on  G-series  orders  IAW  AFI  33-328  and  this  instruction,  unless  precluded  by  military exigencies.    Failure  to  issue  written  G-series  orders,  however,  does  not  invalidate  otherwise lawful  appointments  to  or  assumptions  of  command  or  actions  taken  IAW  the  incidents  of command.    G-series  orders  shall  reflect  the  actual  effective  date  of  command,  even  if  the  date precedes the publication date of the orders (see paragraph  12.2.1.3.1).  (T-1)  12.1.  G-series orders may be published on a Form 35 or in memorandum format. to  command  of the  unit,  IAW  AFI  33-328. 12.2.  The  orders  publishing  activity/organization  shall  prepare,  coordinate,  publish, distribute, and maintain G-series orders, including official record sets, to formally document succession   The  orders  publishing activity/organization  shall  identify  orders  by  organization  and  G-series  number.    Number orders sequentially, beginning with the calendar year, and designate a G-series number that reflects the year and sequence, such as “GO 14-1.”  Above the heading of the first order of a year,  cite  the  number  of  the  last  order  published  the  previous  year.    If  no  orders  were published  during  the  preceding  year,  state  that  “no  orders  were  published  in  this  series  in (year).”  (T-1) 12.2.1.  Include the following items in all published orders: 12.2.1.1.  If an appointment, a statement that the officer is appointed commander by direction of the President; 12.2.1.2.  The name of the unit the officer will command; 12.2.1.3.  If the officer is attached to the unit for purposes of command, reference the TDY  orders  or  MFR  described  in  paragraph    3.6.1  3.  in  the  remarks  section  of  the Form 35 or in the body of the G-series memorandum; 12.2.1.3.1.  The  effective  date;    NOTE:  If  the  appointing  authority  verbally announced  the  appointment  of  a  commander  prior  to  the  publication  of  the  G-series  orders,  the  orders  may  have  an  effective  date  that  is  earlier  than  the publication date of the orders. 12.2.1.4.  The authority to appoint or assume command; and 12.2.1.5.  Identify whether the assumption or appointment is temporary or permanent. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 21 12.2.2.  A staff officer delegated authority to appoint commanders pursuant to para  6.1.5 will announce the exercise of that authority in published orders.  (T-1) 12.2.3.  IAW  AFI  38-101  and  AFI  33-328,  G-series  orders  appointing  commanders  or announcing an assumption of command (both in memorandum and Form 35 format) may be signed electronically or with wet ink. 12.2.4.  The  orders  publishing  activity/organization  shall  coordinate  and  staff  orders  as soon  as  practically  possible  through  the  servicing  FSS  or  A1  and  legal  office  in  draft form  to  ensure  the  order  is  prepared  correctly.    (T-3)    The  orders  publishing activity/organization shall then finalize the draft, route through the servicing FSS or A1 and legal office for signature, publish, reproduce, and distribute the order.  (T-2) 12.2.4.1.  At  a  minimum,  a  copy  of  all  G-series  orders  shall  be  distributed  to  the servicing  legal  office  and  to  the  servicing  historian’s  office.    (T-1)    G-series  orders maintained by the orders publishing activity/organization, servicing legal  office,  and servicing  historian’s  office  shall  all  be  considered  official  records  and  must  be maintained and disposed of IAW AFI 33-328 and AFI 33-364.  (T-1) 12.2.4.2.  The  orders  publishing  activity/organization  shall  maintain  the  orders  log.  (T-3) 12.2.5.  The  orders  publishing  activity/organization  need  not  publish  assumption  of command  or  appointment  to  command  orders  for  an  officer  who  originally  held  the command position when s/he resumes command after a temporary absence. 12.2.6.  Orders  published  when  another  officer  temporarily  assumed  command,  or  was temporarily  appointed during a temporary absence of the commander, are automatically rescinded  when  the  permanent  commander  returns  to  and  is  present  for  duty  (see paragraph  A3.1 and Figure  A3.1, Blocks 6 and 8). 12.2.7.  Amend, rescind, and revoke G-series orders IAW AFI 33-328, paragraph 3.2. 12.2.8.  See Figure A3.1 for guidance on completing Form 35. 12.2.9.  The  following  examples  illustrate  wording  for  assumptions  of  command published in memorandum format: 12.2.9.1.  Permanent assumption of command:  “Under the provisions of AFI 51-604, I assume command of the 366th Wing, vice Colonel TIM O. THEE, XXX-XX-0000, effective 1 November 2015.” 12.2.9.2.  Temporary assumption of command:  “Under the provisions of AFI 51-604, I  assume  command  of  the  366th  Wing,  during  the  temporary  absence  of  Colonel GERALDINE PRATT MAY, XXX-XX-0000, effective 1 November 2015.” 12.2.10.  The appointments to command published in memorandum format: following  examples illustrate  appropriate  wording to  announce 12.2.10.1.  Permanent  appointment  to  command:    “By  direction  of  the  President, Colonel  EDWARD  R.  MURPHY,  XXX-XX-0000,  is  appointed  Commander,  76th Wing,  AMC,  JB  Andrews,  MD,  effective  1  November  2014.    Authority:    AFI  51-604.” 22 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 12.2.10.2.  Temporary  appointment  to  command:    “By  direction  of  the  President, Colonel  BARBARA  A.  WILSON,  XXX-XX-0000,  is  appointed  Commander,  76th Wing,  AMC,  JB  Andrews,  MD,  effective  1  November  2015,  during  the  temporary absence of Colonel FREDERICK C. LEWIS.  Authority:  AFI 51-604.” 12.2.11.  Consult  Figure    A3.2  and  AFI  33-328  for  uniformity  of  orders  formats  and additional orders publishing guidance. 13.  Correcting Erroneous Assumptions of or Appointments to Command. 13.1.  If an officer assumes command and it is later discovered that the officer was not senior in rank to another officer assigned to the unit who was eligible to command, or an officer is appointed  to  command  and  it  is  later  discovered  that  an  officer  senior  in  grade  who  was eligible  to  command  was  assigned  to  the  unit,  or  the  officer  who  erroneously  assumed,  or was erroneously appointed to, command was otherwise ineligible to command: 13.1.1.  All  command  authorities  and  responsibilities  exercised  by  that  officer—except actions  under  the  UCMJ—may  be  affirmed  and/or  ratified  in  writing  by  a  superior competent authority or by a subsequent, lawfully appointed or assuming commander. 13.1.1.1.  If  an  officer’s  assumption  of  command  is  later  discovered  to  be  improper only because the officer  was not  senior in  rank to  another officer of the  same grade assigned  to  the  same  unit  who  was  eligible  to  command,  a  superior  competent authority may appoint the first-referenced officer to command the unit retroactively to the date s/he had originally, improperly assumed command.  In this circumstance, the retroactive  appointment  order  ratifies  the  officer’s  previous  command  actions  and decisions—except actions taken under the UCMJ. 13.1.1.2.  Any  command  authorities  and  responsibilities  under  the  UCMJ  exercised by  an  ineligible  commander  are  void.    All  other  command  authorities  and responsibilities exercised by an ineligible commander that are not affirmed or ratified are voidable. 13.2.  See  AFI  33-328,  Chapter  3,  for  guidance  on  administrative  changes  to,  rescinding, and revoking orders. 14.  Relief  of  Command.  Command is a privilege, not a right.  As such, a superior competent authority may relieve an officer of command for any reason not prohibited by law or policy. 14.1.  Not for cause.  If an officer is relieved of command as an assignment action only and not for cause, then the officer’s relief of command may not be used as a basis to support any adverse  action  or  collateral  administrative  documentation  against  the  officer.    This prohibition  does  not  limit  raters’  ability  to  generally  provide  appropriate  comments  in  the officer’s  next  performance  report  regarding  the  officer’s  performance  or  potential;  the comments may not reference the relief of command assignment action. 14.2.  For  cause.    An  officer  may  be  relieved  of  command  for  cause,  including  instances where  the  superior  competent  authority  has  lost  confidence  in  the  officer’s  ability  to command due to misconduct, poor judgment, the subordinate’s inability to complete assigned duties,  the  interests  of  good  order  and  discipline,  morale,  the  good  of  the  organization,  or other similar reasons. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 23 14.2.1.  A superior competent authority’s decision to relieve a commander for cause must not be arbitrary and capricious. 14.2.2.  Relief of command for cause may be used as a basis, in addition to the specific underlying  reason  for  relief,  to  support  adverse  action(s)  or  collateral  administrative documentation pertaining to the officer. 14.2.3.  If a specified cause for relief of command is  later discovered, or determined by competent  authority,  to  have  been  in  error,  the  officer  is  not  entitled  to  be  returned  to command.    The  competent  authority  may  initiate,  or  the  officer  may  request  that  the competent  authority  issue,  a  memorandum  for  record  recharacterizing  the  relief  of command  from  “for  cause”  (paragraph    14.2)  to  “relief  of  command  not  for  cause” (paragraph  14.1) or to a suspension (paragraph  14.3).  The officer relieved in error may then  use  the  memorandum  in  any  appropriate  forum  (e.g.,  Evaluation  Report  Appeals Board  ,  Air  Force  Board  for  the  Correction  of  Military  Records  )  as  support  in  seeking corrections to his/her personnel records. 14.3.  Suspension.  If a superior competent authority is concerned about an officer’s ability to command but has not yet determined whether relief of command is warranted and/or whether relief of command should be with or without cause, the superior commander may temporarily suspend  that  subordinate  officer  from  command  for  any  reason  not  prohibited  by  law  or policy.    Such  temporary  suspensions  must  be  in  writing  and,  if  terminated,  shall  be terminated  in  writing  clearly  delineating  the  period  of  suspension.    Temporary  suspensions render the suspended officer ineligible to command during the period of suspension. 14.3.1.  During such periods of suspension, another officer eligible to command may be temporarily  appointed  to  command  the  unit.    To  ensure  clear  lines  of  authority, assumption of command in  this circumstance is  discouraged.   If the superior competent authority decides not to appoint a temporary commander and prohibits the assumption of command  of  the  unit,  then  the  superior  competent  authority  retains  and  may  exercise command authorities related to the unit. 14.3.2.  After  collecting  information  during  such  a  period  of  suspension,  the  superior competent  authority  may  relieve  the  officer  of  command  for  cause  or  as  an  assignment action only, or may reinstate the officer’s command authorities. 14.4.  Notice requirements.   14.4.1.  Notice to Superior Competent Authority.  Prior to taking final action to relieve an officer  from  any  command  position,  with  or  without  cause,  a  superior  competent authority  must  first  notify  the  next  higher  superior  competent  authority  of  the  officer being  relieved  of  command.    For  example,  a  wing  commander  relieving  a  subordinate group  commander must notify the  wing  commander’s next  superior  commander.   If the relief  of  command  is  for  cause,  notice  to  the  next  higher  superior  competent  authority must  be  in  writing  (e.g.,  email  exchange,  memo,  etc.).    (T-1)    Failure  to  provide  the required  written  notice  in  advance  of  the  relief  from  command  does  not  invalidate  the relief from command.  In such cases, the required written notice must be accomplished as soon as practicable following the relief from command of the officer. 14.4.2.  Notice to the Officer.  A superior competent authority must provide written notice of his/her decision to relieve an officer of command without cause (paragraph  14.1), for AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 cause  (paragraph    14.2),  or  to  suspend  an  officer  from  command  pending  further investigation (paragraph  14.3) to the officer at or before the time the officer is relieved of command.    (T-1)    A  sample  written  notice  is  provided  at  Attachment  4.    The  officer relieved  of  command  is  not  required  to  be  afforded  an  opportunity  to  respond  to  this written  notice.    Such  written  notice  becomes  effective  immediately  upon  notice  to  the officer  relieved  of  command.    In  cases  where  written  notice  cannot  be  immediately provided and verbal notice is provided instead, a subsequent written notice is effective at the time the earlier verbal relief was communicated to the relieved officer. 24  CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE Lieutenant General, USAF The Judge Advocate General AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 25 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 1-2, Commander’s Responsibilities, 8 May 2014 AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions, 20 November 2014 AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012, incorporating through AFGM2014-01, 22 December 2014 AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009 AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005, incorporating through Change 2, 29 November 2012 AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010, incorporating through AFGM1, 7 April 2015 AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Aviation Badges, 13 December 2010, certified current, 5 February 2013 AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, 16 January 2007 AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy Act and Civil Liberties Program, 12 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 8 July 2015 AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, 1 July 1999 AFI 36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, 3 December 2009, certified current, 13 January 2012 AFI 36-2008, Voluntary Extended Active Duty (EAD) for Air Reserve Commissioned Officers, 5 November 2002 AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009, incorporating changes through AFGM2015-03, 16 July 2015 AFI 36-2134, Air Force Strength Accounting Duty Status Program, 4 August 2014 AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010, incorporating through Change 3, 7 August 2013 AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 2 January 2013, incorporating corrective action applied on 10 September 2015 AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, 16 June 2004, incorporating changes through AFGM2015-03, 28 July 2015 AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, 12 December 2014, incorporating through Change 1, 27 August 2015 AFI 36-2604, Service Dates and Dates of Rank, 5 October 2012 26 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, 24 September 2008, incorporating through Change 1, 26 January 2015 AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, 9 May 2011, incorporating changes through 30 October 2013 AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 26 October 2015 AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program, 3 June 2013, incorporating through Change 3, 13 January 2015 AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Military Awards and Decorations Program, 18 December 2013, incorporating through AFGM2015-03, 25 June 2015 AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 21 October 2013, incorporating through Change 1, 27 August 2015 AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, 26 November 2014 AFI 36-2910, Line of Duty (Misconduct) Determination, 8 October 2015 AFI 36-2911, Desertion and Unauthorized Absence, 15 October 2009 AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 3 March 2015 AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements, 18 September 2015 AFI 36-3204, Procedures for Applying as a Conscientious Objector, 15 July 1994 AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004, incorporating changes through AFGM2015-01, 23 June 2015 AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004, incorporating changes through AFGM2015-01, 23 June 2015 AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011, incorporating changes through AFGM2.1, 15 April 2014 AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program, 8 July 2014 AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 7 November 2003, 31 March 2015 AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011, 27 August 2015 AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress, 14 June 2012 AFI 90-507, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program, 22 September 2014 AFMAN 13-501, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), 20 May 2015 AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, certified current 9 April 2015 AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force (HAF), 8 April 2011 AFPD 36-9, Senior Executive Resource Management, 31 October 2011 AFPD 38-1, Organization and Unit Designations, 24 August 2011 AFPD 51-6, Command and Administrative Proceedings, 13 November 2015 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 27 ANGI 36-2606, Selective Retention of Air National Guard Officer and Enlisted Personnel, 8 August 2012 Commander-Directed Investigation (CDI) Guide, SAF/IGQ, 26 April 2010 HAFMD 1-4, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, 7 March 2012 DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix, 12 April 2010 DoDI 1327.06, Leave and Liberty Policy and Procedures, 16 June 2009, incorporating Change 2, 13 August 2013 DoDI 1332.30, Separation of Regular and Reserve Commissioned Officers, 25 November 2013 DoDI 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources and the DoD Physical Security Review Board (PSRB), 10 December 2005, incorporating Change 2, 8 April 2014 DoDI 6490.04, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Military Services, 4 March 2013 JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 25 March 2013 Manual for Courts Martial United States (2012 Edition) Title 5, United States Code, Section 552 (5 USC § 552) 5 USC § 552a 10 USC § 101 10 USC § 164 10 USC § 325 10 USC § 601 10 USC § 741 10 USC § 749 10 USC § 750 10 USC § 777 10 USC § 815 10 USC § 822 10 USC § 823 10 USC § 8013 10 USC § 8067 10 USC § 8074 10 USC § 8581 10 USC § 8579 10 USC § 10101 18 USC § 1382 28 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 50 USC § 797 Prescribed Forms AF Form 35, Announcement of Appointment to/Assumption of Command Adopted Forms AF Form 108, Air Force Fitness Education and Intervention Processing AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AF Form 2096, Classification/on-the-Job Training Action DD Form 2808, Report of Medical Examination DD Form 2839, Career Status Bonus (CSB) Election OGE Form 278, Public Financial Disclosure Report OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report Abbreviations and Acronyms AETF—Air Expeditionary Task Force AEW—Air Expeditionary Wing AF—Air Force AF/DPG—Air Force General Officer Matters Office AF/JAA—Administrative Law Directorate AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code AGR—Active Guard and Reserve ANG—Air National Guard ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States ARC—Air Reserve Component COMAFFOR—Commander, Air Force Forces CAP—Civil Air Patrol CC—Commander AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 29 CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency FOC—Full Operational Capability FOIA—Freedom of Information Act FSS—Force Support Squadron GCMCA—General Court-Martial Convening Authority HAF—Headquarters Air Force IAW—In Accordance With JA—Judge Advocate MAJCOM—Major Command MOA—Memorandum of Agreement NAF—Numbered Air Force NJP—Nonjudicial Punishment NGB—National Guard Bureau OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PAS—Personnel Accountability System PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment PCS—Permanent Change of Station PDS—Personnel Data System RegAF—Regular Air Force SAFO—Senior Air Force Officer SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SecDef—Secretary of Defense SJA—Staff Judge Advocate SORN—System of Records Notice SPCMCA—Special Court-Martial Convening Authority TDY—Temporary Duty UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice USC—United States Code 30 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force Terms Active Duty (AD)—Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States.  The term includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active military service,  at  a  school  designated  as  a  service  school  by  law  or  by  the  Secretary  of  the  military department concerned.  AD does not include full-time National Guard duty.  (10 USC § 101(d)) Active Service—Service on active duty or full-time National Guard duty.  (10 USC § 101(d)) Active Status—The status of a member of a reserve component who is not in the inactive ANG, on an inactive status list, or in the Retired Reserve.  (10 USC § 101(d)) Activity Outside the Air Force—An organization or agency to which AF members are assigned or  attached  that  is  not  part  of  the  title  10  AF.    They  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  defense agencies,  defense  field  activities,  Air  National  Guard  units  not  in  federal  service,  and consolidated units, such as consolidated flying units. While joint and combined organizations are not part of the AF, they are not considered "Activities Outside the Air Force" for the purpose of this instruction. Air  Force  Element—The  nomenclature  used  to  account  for  manpower  authorizations  and  to identify Air  Force personnel  on duty with  organizations outside the Air Force, such  as defense agencies, defense  field  activities and Air National  Guard units not  in  federal  service. Although not  a  unit  for  organizational  purposes,  an  element  may  function  as  a  unit  if  so  designated  by competent authority, an eligible commissioned officer either assumes command or is appointed to command and Air Force members are assigned or attached to the element.  (AFI 38-101) Air Reserve Component (ARC)—The air reserve components include the Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS) and the AFR. (10 USC § 10101) Arbitrary  and  capricious—The absence of a rational  connection between the facts  found and the  choice  made,  constituting  a  clear  error  of  judgment.    The  action  does  not  appear  to  be supported  by  fair,  solid,  and  reasonable  cause,  or  based  upon  consideration  of  relevant  factors.  (AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution) Commander—A  commissioned  officer  who,  by  virtue  of  rank  and  assignment,  exercises command  authority  over  a  military  organization  or  prescribed  territorial  area,  which  under pertinent  official  directives  is  recognized  as  a  “command.”    This  designation  is  used  in  all  AF units authorized to be led by a commander except the USAF Academy, which is commanded by a superintendent, and school/academic units, which may be commanded by commandants. Grade—The office or position a military officer holds, as in second lieutenant, first lieutenant, captain, major, etc.  (10 USC § 741(a)) Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF)—The HAF is  comprised of the offices of the SecAF and the Air Staff.  CSAF presides over the Air Staff.  (10 USC §§8014, 8031, & 8033; AFMD 1) Inactive Status—Status of Reserve members on an inactive status list of a Reserve component or assigned to the inactive ANG.  Those in an inactive status may not train for points or pay and may not be considered for promotion. Member—A person appointed to, enlisted in, or conscripted into a uniformed service. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 31 Rank—Rank  among  officers  of  the  same  grade  or  of  equivalent  grades  is  determined  by comparing dates of rank.  An officer whose date of rank is earlier than the date of rank of another officer of the same or equivalent grade is senior to that officer.  (10 USC § 741(b)) Unit—A  military  organization  constituted  by  HAF  directives.    A  unit  is  either  named  or numbered.    AF  units  include  MAJCOMs,  NAFs,  wings,  groups,  squadrons,  centers,  DRUs, FOAs, and provisional  units.  See AFI 38-101.   They  also  include deployable  units such as air expeditionary  wings,  groups  or  squadrons,  attached  to  an  Air  and  Space  Expeditionary  Task Force or an in-place NAF that has been directed to support a joint force commander.  A unit may be  civilian  led  or  will  have  a  commander.    For  purposes  of  this  instruction,  unless  otherwise specified,  the  term  “unit”  will  include  those  non-units  identified  in  AFI  38-101  as  being authorized to have a commander, such as AF Elements, sections, and detachments.  32 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Attachment 2 COMMANDER AND CIVILIAN DIRECTOR AUTHORITIES A2.1.  Subject  to  the  exceptions  listed  below,  civilian  directors  may  lead  organizations traditionally commanded by military officers. A2.1.1.  Per AFI 38-101, paragraph 2.3.1.1.2.3., a unit will  not have a civilian director and must have a military commander if the unit: A2.1.1.1.  Is committed as a unit to a combat mission or to fill a mobility requirement; A2.1.1.2.  Has, or has a subordinate organization with, a flying mission; A2.1.1.3.  Has  a medical mission; A2.1.1.4.  Is above wing level (this restriction does not apply to AF and MAJCOM FOA headquarters units); A2.1.1.5.  Is one whose leader would normally function as an installation commander; A2.1.1.6.  Is an expeditionary or provisional unit; or A2.1.1.7.  Is in the AFR or ANG (this restriction does not limit traditional AFR and ANG technician arrangements). A2.2.  As  leaders  of  military  organizations,  civilian  directors  perform  all  functions  normally performed  by  a  unit  commander  (AFI  51-604,  para  3.5.3.)  except  as  restricted  by  law  (e.g., UCMJ) or DoD issuance (AFI 38-101, para 2.1.2.1.).  Thus, if AF guidance indicates an action is  to  be  carried  out  by  the  “commander,”  additional  research  is  required  to  determine  if  DoD guidance  or  law  requires  those  actions  to  be  performed  by  a  military  member.    If  not,  then  a civilian  director  who  is  equivalent  in  rank  and  authority  of  the  commander  may  take  those actions.    For  example,  if  an  AFI  currently  requires  that  a  group  commander  sign  off  on  a particular action, a civilian director would have to be a director over a group to be able to do the same. A2.2.1.  Figure    A2.1  is  provided  as  a  reference  tool,  applying  this  general  rule  to  specific areas  of  authorities  and  to  explain  which  authorities  can  be  delegated  (either  by  the commander or, if applicable, the civilian director). A2.2.1.1.  Figure  A2.1 is not all inclusive, but addresses some of the more common areas of concern.  This figure is not a substitute for independent research and consultation with the supporting legal office for each circumstance presented. A2.2.1.2.  For  purposes  of  Figure    A2.1,  ARC  commanders  who  also  perform  duty  as dual-status  military  technicians  are  considered  to  be  “commanders”  when  they  are  in military  status  and  equivalent  to  “civilian  directors”  when  in  their  civilian  military technician status. A2.2.2.  Where civilian directors are authorized, some of their administrative functions must be  approved  by  the  special  court-martial  convening  authority  (SPCMCA)  or  general  court-martial convening authority (GCMCA).  10 USC §§ 822 and 823 (Articles 22 and 23, UCMJ, respectively)  identify  only  the  President,  Secretary  of  Defense,  the  service  secretaries,  and commanding officers are eligible to become a GCMCA and SPCMCA.  Because federal law AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 33 prohibits civilian directors from holding those positions, a civilian director can never be the final approval authority for those issues that require SPCMCA or GCMCA approval. Figure A2.1. May a Civilian Director: Answer Rationale Delegable? Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) & Investigations # 1. No  Issue an Article 15, nonjudicial punishment (NJP)? - Manual for Courts Martial (MCM), Part V, para 2.  - AFI 51-202 paras 2.2 & 2.7   10 USC § 815 (Article 15(b), UCMJ) states, “Subject to subsection (a) any commanding officer may, in addition to or in lieu of admonition or reprimand, impose one or more of the following disciplinary punishments for minor offenses without the intervention of a court-martial….” (emphasis added)     No, but AFI 51-202, para 3.9, allows a commander (CC) to direct a subordinate, senior in rank to the member (when practicable) and in member’s unit to notify a member of NJP proceedings.  See also, AFI 51-202, for special provisions regarding principal assistants. No, but see discussion in Rationale column re authority of all officers and NCOs CC may delegate authority to restrain enlisted members to NCOs.  (RCM 304(b)(2))  CC must decide w/in 72 hours of confinement whether it will continue.  (RCM 305(h)(2)(A)) No.  2.  Order pretrial apprehension? - MCM, Part II, RCM 302 No 3.  Order pretrial No restraint and confinement? - MCM, Part II, RCMs 304 & 305 Only those subject to UCMJ may order pretrial apprehension.  Officers and noncommissioned officers (NCOs) on active duty may also order apprehension.   Only those subject to UCMJ may order pretrial apprehension.  Any officer on active duty may order restraint of an enlisted member.  Only commanding officer may order restraint of an officer.  4.  Prefer court-martial No charges? - MCM, Part II, RCM 307 MCM, Rule 307(a), states, “Any person subject to the code may prefer charges.”    34 # May a Civilian Director: 5.  Cause an accused to be notified of court-martial charges? - MCM, Part II, RCM 308 Answer No, but can deliver the notice 6.  Authorize probable Maybe  MRE 315 authorizes CC or other persons “serving in a position designated by the Secretary concerned as either a position analogous to an officer in charge or a position of commander, who has control over the place where the property or person to be searched is situated or found….”  Each civilian director position and proposed search must be analyzed separately. 10 USC § 938 (Article 138, UCMJ) states:  “Any member of the armed forces who believes himself wronged by his commanding officer ….”  (emphasis added)  A civilian director has inherent authority to investigate matters within his/her authority.  See 10 USC § 8583 (“All commanding officers and others in authority in the AF are required—(2) to be vigilant in inspecting the conduct of all persons who are placed under their command.”) (Emphasis added).    Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   cause searches? - MCM, Part III, MRE 315 7.  Be the subject of an Article 138 complaint? No  8.  Direct Yes investigations? - SAF/IG CDI Guide, 26 April 2010, para 3.2 9.  Be a report of Yes survey appointing authority?  - AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, paras 4.1.1, & 7.1, & Chapter 9   AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Rationale Delegable? MCM, Rule 308(a) says the immediate CC shall cause the accused to be notified of the charges.  The commander may then have someone else (including a civilian director) actually deliver the notice.   Causing notice to be delivered:  no  Delivering notice:  yes No.  However, search authorizations may also be granted by a duly appointed military magistrate. N/A CDI guide is silent AFMAN is silent, but appointing authorities should be designated in writing AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 35 # 10.  # 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. Answer Yes May a Civilian Director: Be a report of survey approving authority?  - AFMAN 23-220, Chapters 8 & 10   Rationale Delegable? Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Various delegation authorities authorized.  See Chapters 8 & 10 May a Civilian Director: Issue an LOA, LOC, or LOR? - AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, Ch 4 Establish a UIF for officers and enlisted?  - AFI 36-2907,     paras 2.1 (authorizing directors at various levels to take such action)   Establish or remove officers and enlisted from a control roster?  - AFI 36-2907, Ch 3   Request OPR/EPR close-out date extensions to document bad behavior & pending admin actions? - AFI 36-2406, paras 1.13.2 & 1.13.2.2.1 Initiate officer promotion propriety actions?  - AFI 36-2501, Adverse Administrative Actions Answer  Rationale Yes AFI 36-2907, Chapter 4, para 4.1, states, “Commanders, supervisors, and other persons in authority can issue administrative counseling, admonitions, and reprimands.”   Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.  Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Delegable? No, but see discussion on authority of additional personnel in Rationale column No provision against it, but recommend this authority not be delegated No provision against it, but recommend this authority not be delegated AFI is silent Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   No provision against it, but recommend this authority not be 36  # 16. 17. 18. 19.  Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation,        paras 5.3 & 5.6 May a Civilian Director: Demote enlisted personnel?  - AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, para 6.2.1   Be the show-cause Authority (SCA) for officer discharges?  - AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, paras 1.1 4.14 & 4.22 Initiate an enlisted discharge action?  - AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, Chapters 4, 5, and 6, paras 4.4.1, 6.9, 6.14 Initiate a line of duty (LOD) determination?  - AFI 36-2910, Line of Duty (Misconduct) Determination, para 2.1.2 - 38 USC § 1131 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 delegated Answer Yes Rationale Delegable? If the civilian director is in the same or equivalent position as the CCs listed in the AFI, such actions are not otherwise prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   No provision against it, but recommend this authority not be delegated No  AFI and DODI 1332.30 (definition of SCA) specifically require a general officer or officer exercising GCMCA.   Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Absent unusual circumstances, MAJCOM/CC will delegate SCA to general officer wing CCs or GCMCA.  SCA can delegate certain administrative functions. No provision against it, but recommend this authority not be delegated   Medical & Physical Fitness Related Yes  Military medical providers, staff judge advocates, and CCs “shall take an active role in ensuring that an LOD determination is initiated.”  Because this mandate is not limited to CCs, civilian directors may also take an active role in ensuring an LOD is initiated, when appropriate.   No prohibition, although if the LOD is adverse to member, such adverse decisions are usually made at higher levels. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 37 # 20. 21. 22. May a Civilian Director: Act as: (a)  immediate commander;  (b)  appointing authority;  (c)  reviewing authority, or  (d)  approving authority for an LOD determination?   - AFI 36-2910,          Table 2.2   Direct a mental health evaluation (MHE)?  - DoDI 6490.04, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Military Services  Direct member to submit to ADAPT or drug testing within 24 hours of suspected alcohol-related misconduct, etc.? - AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program, para 3.7.2.3 & 3.7.2.4  Answer Rationale Delegable? (a)  Yes (b)  Yes (c)  Yes (d)(1)  No     (d)(2) Yes Yes  No  (a)-(c)  Neither federal law nor DoD issuance prohibits civilian directors from acting in this role.    (d)(1)  Approving authority for RegAF, Air Force Academy cadets, and ANG on Title 10 federal active duty rests with an SPCMCA; (d)(2)  All other are staff or command positions that are not limited by DoD guidance or law   (a)-(c)  Yes    (d)(1)  No     (d)(2)  Yes Yes, to a senior enlisted supervisor for enlisted MHEs.  The DoDI does not authorize any other delegations of authority.   No DoDI 6490.04 vests authority in CCs, commissioned officers  and civilian employees in a grade level comparable to a commissioned officer, who exercise supervisory authority over the service member owing to the service member’s current or temporary duty assignment or other circumstances of the service member’s duty assignment; and is authorized due to the impracticality of involving an actual commanding officer in the member’s chain of command to direct an MHE. Civilians may not order military members to submit urinalysis samples as part of a urinalysis program  -- US v. Miller, 66 M.J. 306 (CAAF 2008) -- DoDD 1010.1 states:  command-directed testing is done when a “commander has reason to question the Service member’s competence for duty,” and references MRE 313 (which speaks of drug testing as an “incident of command”).    -- Superior CCs in the chain may also order CC-directed drug tests. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Answer Rationale Delegable? No  No No  Yes Civilians may not order military members to submit urinalysis samples as part of a urinalysis program  -- US v. Miller, 66 M.J. 306 (CAAF 2008)  -- Superior CCs in the chain may also order unit drug sweeps  Civilians may not order military members to submit urinalysis samples as part of a urinalysis program  -- US v. Miller, 66 M.J. 306 (CAAF 2008)  -- Superior CCs in the chain may also order unit drug sweeps DoDI 1010.6 envisions command consultation during intake and command involvement in rehab programs.  Also, some responsibil-ities listed in AFI 44-121, para 3.8, come within the purview of the UCMJ and others deal specifically with drug testing (discussed earlier).   Per para 10.4.3, AF Form 108 may be signed by CC or civilian equivalent to document education and intervention.  Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   See discussion in Rationale column, but authority to order unit sweep is not delegable  After consulting the SJA, CCs may designate others, in writing, to issue notifications.  Designees must be in same component of, and superior in grade to, the member to be tested. No Yes.  Unit CC may designate a command representative  38  # 23. 24. 25. 26.  May a Civilian Director: Order unit sweep drug tests? - AFI90-507, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program, Table 7.1, Note 2.  - MRE 313(b)  - US. v. Moore,        45 MJ 652 Sign random drug test notification letters to members? - AFI 90-507, paras 2.6.4.8.2 & 2.6.4.8.2.1  Perform Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) responsibilities.  (i.e., refer for assessment) - AFI 44-121,  para 3.8 Document physical fitness test failures by signing AF Form 108, Physical Fitness Education and Intervention Processing? - AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, para 10.4.3 #  May a Civilian Answer Rationale Delegable? AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 39 Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   No provision against delegation  AF Form 469 actions not limiting mobility may be delegated to first sergeant or member’s supervisor 27. Director:   Sign/approve physical profile forms:  AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report, AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status , & DD Form 2808, Report of Medical Examination? - AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions, paras 2.17.4 & 2.17.5.2 Operations, PRP, & Security 28. Participate in military operations? No N/A Civilian employees are prohibited from participating in offensive combat operations.  DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix, Encl 4, para 1(c)(1)(b) 29. 30. 31. Take miscellaneous deployment actions? - AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, para 7.4.1 Convene a Flying Evaluation Board (FEB)?  - AFI 11-402, para 4.4.2 Take Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) actions? - AFMAN 13-501, Nuclear Weapons Personnel reliability Program (PRP) Unlikely  The AFI requires deployed CC AFI is silent verification and coordination on extensions.  Civilian directors, however, are unlikely to perform duties in a role equivalent to deployed commanders.   No  Yes AFI 11-402 requires an FEB to be convened by a flying wing CC.  AFI 38-101, para 2.3.1.1.2.3.2, prohibits civilian directors from leading units with a flying mission  Authorizes CC/director actions, depending upon role in which director is serving AFI is silent IAW Enclosure 3, App 1, para 1.a.(2)(d) CC/director may delegate certain authorities in writing to specific 40 # 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 officials. Delegation should be limited and not used on a routine basis.  Answer Yes Rationale Delegable? Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.  DoDD 5200.2, DoD Personnel Security Program.   AFI is silent Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.  DoDD 5200.2-R.   AFI is silent, but recommend this authority not be delegated No DoDI 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources and the DoD Physical Security Review Board (PSRB), authorizes CCs to issue regulations to safeguard property and places.    DoDI is silent, but recommend this authority not be delegated May a Civilian Director: Suspend an individual’s security clearance?   - AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management Sign interim security clearance authorizations/security clearance approval for special projects? - AFI 31-501, para 3.11 & Table A25.1 Declare a national defense area? Personnel and Other Actions (See separate section below for Civilian Employees) Initiate and/or authorize a decoration?  -AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Military Awards and Decorations Program Sign and/or perform “commander” functions related to EPRs? -AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Yes, but only AF decor-ations Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.    AFI is silent, but recommend this authority not be delegated Yes The AFI authorizes “civilian equivalents” to sign as commander, and this practice is not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Yes AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 41  # 37. 38. 39. 40. Evaluation Systems, para 3.1.14.1  May a Civilian Director: Authorize leave, liberty, or grant 3- and 4-day passes?  - AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, para 1   - AFI 51-604,            para 3.7.2 Authorize permissive TDY?  - AFI 36-3003,            para 12.4 Investigate and document unauthorized absences?  - AFI 36-2911, Desertion and Unauthorized Absence, paras 1.1, 1.2, 2.2, & Table 1.1 Decide whether to file documents in or remove them from an  Officer Selection Record (OSR) or Noncommissioned Officer Selection Record (NSR)?  - AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, Answer Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Rationale Delegable? Leave disapproval – yes, but no lower than first-line supervisor  - AFI 36-3003,           para 4.3.1.  Pass – yes, but not lower than section CC, deputy, or equivalent - AFI 36-3003,           para 8.3. Yes - IAW AFI 36-3003, para 4.2 Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.  MPS or CC’s staff may take actions See discussion in Rationale column AFI is silent, but recommend this authority not be delegated Chapter 7 – No;      Chapter 8 – Yes, in part Chapter 7 relates to NJP authorities which are reserved to personnel who are subject to the UCMJ.  Civilians are not subject to the UCMJ and thus, cannot make decisions incident to that authority.  Chapter 8, only as it relates to documentation of other administrative actions and thus can be exercised by a civilian of like rank and authority. 42  # 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. Chapters 7 & 8 May a Civilian Director: Make a recommendation regarding officer retirement grade?  - AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements, paras 7.6.3 Be the appointing authority for conscientious objector cases?   - AFI 36-3204, Procedures for Applying as a Conscientious Objector, para 3.1.1 Answer Yes Not for RegAF and AFR   Maybe for ANG   Yes Yes Initiate duty status changes for AWOL, confinement, etc.? - AFI 36-2911, paras 1.1, 1.2., 2.2., Table 1.1 Review/sign reassignment RIPS? - AFI 36-2110, Assignments, para 2.33.1 & 2.40.6 et seq. Authorize assignment availability code (AAC) extensions?  - AFI 36-2110, paras 2.29.6.8, 2.40, 2.40.4.5 & Table 2.1 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Rationale Delegable? Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.  According to the AFI, the unit CC or “other appropriate authority” will initiate a grade determination.  AFI is silent The AFI requires appointment by the SPCMCA for RegAF and AFR members, so a civilian director cannot exercise this authority.    The appointing authority for investigations involving ANG members, however, is an ANG wing or group CC.  If the civilian director is acting in this or an equivalent capacity, then the director may be the appointing authority.    Per the AFI, the unit CC, support staff, or MPS can take action.    Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.     RegAF/AFR – No     ANG – Yes  Yes Yes Maybe  Appears dependent on the actions—those that require a CC action refer to the individual’s immediate CC.  Reading of portions of AFI indicates that approval of assignment availability code extensions is to some degree dependent on the type of code, e.g., AFI 36-2110, para 2.29.6.8. references the MPS CC, while AFI AFI 36-2110, Atch 1, defines commander as:  “Unless otherwise specified, refers to the immediate commander of the member concerned and includes officially appointed AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 43 36-2110, para 2.40, dealing with assignment quality control issues uses the term CC squadron section commanders.” Rationale Delegable? Answer Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Yes -- does not appear to require commander or supervisor’s signature Yes, for upgrade training – AFI 36-2201, para 4.1.2    AFI is silent on delegation for other actions.  But given potential adverse consequences of AFSC withdrawal and downgrades, recommend those authorities not be delegated AFI is silent  Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.    Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.     Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   AFI is silent Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   AFI/ANGI is silent generally, though ANGI requires some actions to be performed by the CC personally  # 46. 47. 48. 49. 50.  May a Civilian Director: Sign career status bonuses? - DD Form 2839, Career Status Bonus (CSB) Election  Approve classification/OJT training/PCA actions via AF Form 2096, Classification/on-the-Job Training Action? - AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, paras 4.1.2, 6.5.2.1.10 & 6.6.24.5 Endorse retraining applications? - AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program, para 3.9 Promote enlisted personnel?  - AFI 36-2502,     para 1.5 Act as a selection authority for selective reenlistments?  - AFI 36-2606, paras 2.4.2 & 2.4.4 - ANGI 36-2606, Selective Retention of Air National Guard Officer and Enlisted Personnel 44 # 51. 52. 53. 54. 55. 56. May a Civilian Director: Sign Selective Reenlistment Bonuses (SRB) & Critical Skills Retention Bonuses (CSRB) and accelerated payment requests? - AFI 36-2606, Chapters 4 & 7 Deny reenlistment via AF Form 418?  - AFI 36-2606, paras 2.4.2.1 & 2.4.2.3 Authorize extensions of enlistment or reenlistment? - AFI 36-2606, para 6.10.2. - ANGI 36-2606 Administer the oath of reenlistment? - AFI 36-2606, para 5.5 Perform CC responsibilities related to WAPS testing? - AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, para 1.12 Issue a “lawful order”?     AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Rationale Delegable? Answer Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   No provision against delegation, but delegate cautiously. Also, because unit CC disapproval is a final decision, authority to disapprove should not be delegated No provision against delegation, but should not be delegated AFI/ANGI is silent generally, though ANGI requires some actions to be performed by the CC personally No AFI is silent Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   No Yes The President, the Vice-President, the Secretary of Defense, any commissioned officer (including warrant officers), or any other person designated under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   No, but see #57 Lawful orders may be issued by a member of the armed forces.  See MCM, Part IV, discussion of Article 92, UCMJ, at para b(2)(a).  A military member cannot be punished under Article 92(1) or (2) for not obeying an apparent order Depends upon the substance of the order. AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 45  # 57. 58. May a Civilian Director: Issue a directive that military members must follow?   Answer Yes No Issue an installation debarment letter? - AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO) para 2.4.9 from a civilian led director.    Rationale Delegable? Depends upon the substance of the directive. No 10 USC § 892 (Article 92, UCMJ) states, “Any person subject to this chapter who … (3) is derelict in the performance of his duties; shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.”  MCM, Part IV, para c(3)(a) explains that a duty may be imposed by regulation or custom of the service.   18 USC § 1382 authorizes the CC or person in charge of an installation to bar an individual from the installation.  This authority is narrowed by other statutes and regulations.  Per 50 USC § 797, violating such orders is a misdemeanor only if the order was promulgated or approved by SecDef, a military officer, or a senior civilian DoD employee in a position designated by SecDef.  DoDI 5200.08, Security of DOD Installations and Resources and the DOD Physical Security Review Board (PSRB), para E1.1.6, authorizes CCs or their civilian equivalents to issue regulations for the security of property or places under their control.  AFI 38-101, para 2.3.1.1.2.3.2, however, expressly states that civilian directors may not be installation CCs.  Because this paragraph is more specific than para 2.1.2.1, para 2.3.1.1.2.3.2 is controlling.  Therefore, while federal law and DoD issuances do not prohibit civilian directors that are equivalent to “installation commander” (AFI 31-101, para 2.4.9) from issuing debarment orders, AFI 38-101 does. 46  # 59. May a Civilian Director: Issue a debarment letter for an area that is not a military installation? 1.AFI 31-101,        para 2.4.9 U.S. v. Ventura-Melendez, 275 F.3d 9 (1st Cir. 2001) Answer Yes, if the civilian is in a position designat-ed by SecDef AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Rationale Delegable? No 18 USC § 1382 authorizes the CC or person in charge to bar an individual from a military reservation, arsenal or yard.  Per 50 USC § 797, violating such orders is a misdemeanor only if the order was promulgated or approved by SecDef, a military officer, or a senior civilian DoD employee in a position designated by SecDef.  DoDDI 5200.08, para E1.1.6, authorizes CCs or civilian equivalents to issue regulations for the security of property or places under their control.  AFI 38-101, para 2.3.1.1.2.3.2, expressly states that civilian directors may not be installation CCs but is silent as to non-installation areas.  Because federal law and DoD issuances allow properly appointed civilian directors to exercise this authority, they may do so.   -- But see U.S. v. Apel: 134 S.Ct. 1144 at 83: 18 USC § 1382 “is most naturally read to apply to places with a defined boundary under the command of a military officer.” Depends  Depends on the substance of the letter and guidance in the corresponding AFI. CCs will establish appropriate procedures to respond to inquiries.   Responding to congressional inquiries is not an act that is purely military in nature requiring a commanding officer to establish response procedures or to sign off on inquiries.  A civilian director can perform similar functions.    The Joint Ethics Regulation, DOD 5500.7-R, Sections 7-205 and 7-Depends on the substance & corres-ponding AFI. Yes, but must be coordinated with MAJCOM and SAF/LL or FMBL Yes Yes 60. 61. Sign an appointment letter? Respond to a congressional inquiry?   - AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress, para 3.4.1  62. Sign an OGE 450, Confidential Yes AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 47 Financial Disclosure Report or OGE 278, Public Financial Disclosure Report? May a Civilian Director: # 63. 64. Sign/approve performance and miscellaneous award certificates? - AFI 36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, Table 5.1 Approve annual performance awards? - AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, para 2.7.5-2.7.7 Sign years of service and retirement certificates? - AFI 36-1004, para 5.4.12.1 66  Approve 65. administrative leave/excused absences? - AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, paras 2.1 & 2.2  305, speaks of supervisors.  It does not mandate that CCs be the only ones involved in the process.   Answer Rationale Delegable? Civilian Employees Yes Approval authority dependent on type of award. See discussion in  Rationale column Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   AFI silent on delegation authority Yes Signature authority:  HQ USAF directors (Colonel (O-6) or CL equivalent & above); MAJCOM director; and installation wing CC or director. Yes Not prohibited by federal law or DoD issuance.   AFI silent on delegation authority Supervisors and team leaders may approve.  IAW AFI 36-815, para 1, authority to approve leave is normally delegated to the lowest supervisory level having personal knowledge of work requirements and leave record 48 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Attachment 3 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF FORM 35 Use of the Form 35 is optional to record appointments to and assumptions of command.  Failure to use it or fill it out correctly does not invalidate an otherwise valid appointment to or assumption of command.  A3.1.  General Guidance: A3.2.  Do  not  publish  orders  when  the  permanent  commander  returns  from  an  absence  if assumption  of  or  appointment  to  command  of  an  interim  commander  was  temporary.    The permanent commander’s return automatically rescinds temporary assumption of and appointment to command orders. A3.3.  Depending on the incoming commander’s status and the type of unit s/he will command, fill in the appropriate block. A3.3.1.  Unless prohibited by this instruction or superior competent authority, an officer that is senior  in both grade and rank in the unit may assume command (use block 5 or 6, although block 11 or 12 would also be appropriate if accomplished by the next higher organizational command level commander). A3.3.2.  If the officer is equivalent in grade but junior in rank to another officer assigned to the  unit,  present  for  duty,  and  otherwise  eligible  to  command,  then  the  next  higher organizational command level commander must use an appointment to designate the officer to command (use block 7 or 8). A3.3.3.  If  the  officer  is  attached  to  a  unit  expressly  “for  purposes  of  command”  by  TDY orders  or  by  detail,  then  the  officer  may  assume  command  (use  block  5  or  6)  or  the appointing authority may appoint him or her to command (use block 7 or 8, or alternatively, 11 or 12). A3.3.4.  If the officer is  to command a section, detachment or AF Element, use blocks 9 or 10, as appropriate. A3.4.  Command  positions  held  by  three-  and  four-star  general  officers  are  subject  to  special rules  (See  paragraph    8.1),  and  those  commanders  may  not  relinquish  their  commands  even temporarily without the advance approval of superior competent authority. A3.5.  Specific guidance for completing the blocks on Form 35 are provided in Figure  A3.1  A3.6.  A checklist for completing the legal review of G-series command orders (AF Form 35 and memorandum format) is provided at Figure  A3.2  This checklist is not required, but is offered as a reference tool only. Figure A3.1. Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 1 Enter the date of request AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 49 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 2 3 4 5-10 5 Enter last name, first name, middle initial, grade, and last four digits of the social security number (SSN) of the officer being appointed to or assuming command. Format = all capital letters Example: “SOMERS, WANDA B., LT COL                    XXX-XX-6789” Enter the name of the unit the officer will command.   Format = all capital letters; spell out unit name as much as possible; and unit number includes suffix (“st,” “d,” “th,” etc.) when name is spelled out (Tongue & Quill).  Example:  “88TH SECURITY FORCES SQUADRON” Enter the location of the HQ of the unit.  For example, if the unit is at Hanscom, but the commander is at Gunter, Block 4 will say “HANSCOM AFB MA 12345-7890”   Format = Use all capital letters and include zip code, if it will fit  Ensure only one of these Blocks is used Use this Block when the officer taking permanent command is of the highest grade and has the earliest date of rank of all other eligible officers and the next higher commander is unavailable to appoint the commander.  Use of this block is rare and should only be used when appointment to command is not a viable or timely option.  The assumption of command becomes invalid if an officer of equal grade but with an earlier date of rank is assigned (see definition in paragraph 3.4.) to the unit at any time.   Do not use this block for MAJCOM, HAF DRU and three-star NAF commanders; these 10 USC § 601 command positions must be appointed IAW paras 8.1.2 and 8.1.6.3. Do not use this block for section commanders, detachment commanders, or AF Element commanders.  Do not use this block if superior competent authority has prohibited assumption of command of organizations within his/her supervision and control. Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command; the grade, name (last, first, middle initial, all upper case), and the last four digits of the SSN of the commander relinquishing command, and the effective date. Example = “LT COL, BUKKIT, EMMA, T., xxx-xx-6789”   50 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 6 Use this Block when the officer taking temporary command (in absence of the permanent commander) is of the highest grade and has the earliest date of rank of all other eligible officers.  This block is a good option when the permanent commander is temporarily out of town and the next highest ranking officer needs to take command action.   DO NOT use this Block when the command position is normally held by a three- or four-star general until coordinated with AF/DPG and AF/JAA.   Do not use this block for section commanders, detachment commanders, or AF Element commanders.  Do not use this block if superior competent authority has prohibited assumption of command of organizations within his/her supervision and control. Do not publish orders when the regular permanent commander returns from an absence if assumption of command was temporary.  The permanent commander’s return automatically rescinds temporary assumption of command orders. Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command; the grade, name (last, first, middle initial, all upper case), and the last four digits of the SSN of the absent or disabled commander; and the effective date.  7 Example = “LT COL, BUKKIT, EMMA, T., xxx-xx-6789”   Use this Block when the officer taking permanent command is of the highest grade, but junior in rank to other eligible officers.  This is the recommended block to use because it is appropriate even if there is a possibility that a higher ranking officer is assigned to the unit at the same time, such as when the outgoing commander is still assigned to the unit after the change of command (often the case to allow the outgoing commander time to ship household goods and PCS) or if higher ranking officer of the same grade is later assigned to the unit (you can never foresee this).   Enter complete title of the unit the individual officer will command and the effective date.  AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 51 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 8 9 10 Use this Block for temporary command (when the commander is expected to return – for example, when the original commander is deployed, ill, TDY, or on leave).  The original commander will take command upon return without the need to cancel or create new G-Series orders.  Temporary appointment to command under this block is necessary when the individual officer taking succeeding to command cannot meet the assumption criteria in AFI 51-604.   Do not publish orders when the regular permanent commander returns from an absence if the appointment to command was temporary.  The permanent commander’s return automatically rescinds orders for temporary appointments to command.  Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command; the grade, name (last, first, middle initial, all upper case), and the last four digits of the SSN of the absent or disabled commander, and the effective date.   Example = “LT COL, BUKKIT, EMMA, T., xxx-xx-6789”   Use this Block to appoint section commanders.  Section commanders cannot assume command.  Headquarters sections should include “Headquarters” in the name of the unit and “HQ” in its abbreviation (e.g., Headquarters, Pacific Air Forces (HQ PACAF)). Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command and the effective date. Use this Block to appoint detachment or AF Element commanders.  Detachment commanders cannot assume command. Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command and the effective date. 11 & 12  These Blocks are normally used in situations not covered by Blocks 5-10, such as when an officer is appointed to command a unit to which s/he is not formally assigned and for which s/he cannot assume command even though s/he might otherwise be the senior officer in the unit were s/he assigned to it.  This circumstance occurs in some dual-hatting situations or  When the commander will undertake the command duties of the gaining unit before being relieved from duty from a losing unit.   It is also used in situations when one officer is to command two different units.  These Blocks may also be used for the initial appointment of a unit commander where the appointing authority wishes to appoint a commander and the provisions of Blocks 7 or 8 do not apply.  11 Use this Block to permanently appoint a commander who is not yet on station, for standing up a new unit, or when any other block does not apply. Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command and the effective date. 52 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 12 Use this Block to temporarily appoint a commander who has not arrived on station, if the unit’s permanent commander is deployed, ill, TDY, on leave, etc., or when any other block does not apply.   13 14 15 16 17 Enter complete title of the unit the officer will command; the grade, name (last, first, middle initial, all upper case), and the last four digits of the SSN of the absent or disabled commander; and the effective date. Example = “LT COL, BUKKIT, EMMA, T., xxx-xx-6789”   Enter the date reviewed (may be after the effective date). Enter the complete name, grade, and title of the personnel official who reviewed the proposed order.  The personnel review should verify the officer’s assignment to the unit and his/her grade and date of rank in that grade.  This information should be used to determine whether assumption or appointment is the correct command succession mechanism.  Format = Abbreviate as necessary to fit in the form.  Note:  the electronic form makes you fit some signature blocks onto one line – even if the electronic form allows two lines, print the form to make sure both lines are visible on the paper copy. Example:  “PAULY C. MANN, Lt Col, USAF                  Commander, XXX Force Support Squadron May be signed either with ink or electronically. Enter the date reviewed (may be after the effective date). Enter the complete name, grade, and title of the JA official who reviewed the proposed order.  The JA review examines the order for legal sufficiency and compliance with the criteria of AFIs 51-604 and 38-101.  The JA reviewing official should determine which of the command succession mechanisms is appropriate in the specific situation, i.e., permanent or temporary assumption or appointment.  Format = Abbreviate as necessary to fit in the form.  Note:  the electronic form makes you fit some signature blocks onto one line – even if the electronic form allows two lines, print the form to make sure both lines are visible on the paper copy. Example:  “JOHN E. LAW, Lt Col, USAF                   Staff Judge Advocate, X FW”                                        or                  “JOHN E. LAW, Lt Col, Staff Judge Advocate, X FW” May be signed either with ink or electronically. Enter the date reviewed (may be after the effective date). 18 19 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 53 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 20 Enter the complete name, grade, and title of the officer authorized to direct, order, or effect this command action.  Normally, this is the next higher commander (i.e., the group commander appoints a squadron commander).   For assumptions, the assuming commander’s name is inserted here.  For appointments, the commander of the next higher level of command (with delegated appointment authority) will sign, if available.  Otherwise, appointment authorities have been delegated by SecAF as provided in AFPD 51-6.   Only a lieutenant colonel or higher grade unit commander may appoint a section commander within the unit (AFI 51-604, paras 8.2.7. and 8.2.8.). Format = Abbreviate as necessary to fit in the form.  Note:  the electronic form makes you fit some signature blocks onto one line – even if the electronic form allows two lines, print the form to make sure both lines are visible on the paper copy. Example:  “JEANNIE N. ABOTTLE, Colonel, USAF                  Commander, X FW”                                        or                  “JEANNIE N. ABOTTLE, Colonel, Commander, X FW” May be signed either with ink or electronically. 21 54 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 22 Use this Block to include any comments pertinent to the proposed action, such as: references to letters or messages that direct the command action or publication of the order; references to TDY orders or detailing MFR(s) attaching an officer to the unit for purposes of command; to document the fact of an earlier VOCO (voice or verbal communication) assumption or appointment; to document that exigencies of the service precluded earlier recording; to document necessary restrictions on the commander’s  (For example, if an O-6 is the incoming commander to a GCMCA position, add the language:  “This appointment does not include authority to convene courts-martial, which will be withheld to the Commander, AFMC.”) to document authorities withheld from the commander (For example, if the superior commander wants to limit the authority of a section commander on military justice actions, add the language:  “This appointment does not include authority to take action on E-7s and above for nonjudicial punishment, involuntary discharge, promotion propriety actions, and demotions, which will be withheld to the X OG/CC.” if the appointing authority (Block 20) is at a superior unit to the unit listed in Block 23 (which is the unit issuing the order), then provide language in Block 22 to authorize the publication.  Example:  “X AF authorizes X FW to publish this order pursuant to AFI 33-328, paragraph 1.2.”  If the remarks are too lengthy for the space provided, then attach a memorandum listing all remarks, and reference the memorandum in Block 22. 23 Enter the publishing headquarters, its location, and zip+4. Example:  “4TH FIGHTER WING (ACC)                  SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB NC 27531-2427” Enter a list of all individuals and units, a distribution code, or both (AFI 33-328, para 4.2).  A list of the individuals and units is preferred, so everyone can understand where the form needs to be sent.  Include at a minimum the member being appointed, the servicing JA and the servicing historian office.    Example: “Mbr, X FW/JA, X MXG/CC, X FSS/FSMP, X FW/HO” The issuing unit completes this section after all other Blocks are completed. 24 25 Format =   “5 JULY 2014” AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 55 Block(s)  Instructions for the Form 35 26 The issuing unit completes this section after all other Blocks are completed.  Ensure order is recorded in appropriate log.   Format =“G-1”   Guidance for numbering orders is provided in AFI 33-328, Table 2.1 and paragraph 1.1.1.2. A second letter prefix may be added if the issuing unit wants to break the series into a specific type (AFI 33-328, para 2.5.1). The issuing unit may decide whether to use calendar or fiscal year for keeping track of their orders (AFI 33-328, para 2.5.1). If the issuing unit uses a two-letter prefix that matches other orders, follow the same rule as for those orders. If this is the first order for this year, cite the number of the last order published the previous year in the top right corner of the form (AFI 33-328, para 2.5.2).   If no orders were published in a series during the preceding year (or years), write: “No orders were published in this series in 2013” in the top right corner of the form. (AFI 33328, para 2.5.2) Figure A3.2. G-SERIES ORDERS REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST For Forms 35 and for Memoranda References:  AFI 38-101; AFI 51-604; AFPC’s Personnel Services Delivery Guide UNIT OF COMMAND:  ____________________________ EFFECTIVE DATE:  _______________ NOTE:  AFPC’s Personnel Services Delivery Guide (PSDG) on G-Series Orders is available at https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/ci/fattach/get/1711562/1327505635/redirect/1. Initials &  Date or N/A  WARNING:  If the G-Series Orders involve an incoming or outgoing lieutenant general or general officer, stop and call AF/JAA.  These officers retain their grade only as long as they serve in their appointed positions.  Any act removing them from their position will effectively vacate their grade unless an exception applies.  (AFI 51-604, para 8.1) NOTICE:  If the incoming commander will not be assigned to the unit or will not be physically located at the unit, contact AF/JAA. Include in Package:  (T-1)   1. 2. 3. 4. 5. (1) Verify the unit is eligible to have a commander.  (AFI 38-101, para 2.1-2.2)  (T-0)   AF Form 35 or Memorandum Format Order SURF for incoming commander UMD printout  If a temporary appointment, include the absent commander’s G-Series Orders. If a section commander, include the unit commander’s G-Series Orders.     56 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 (2) Determine whether there are any restrictions on assumption of or appointment to command the unit issued by superior competent authority.  (T-1)   (3) Obtain a UMD printout from the servicing FSS or A1 that identifies the unit’s PAS code and subordinate units’ PAS codes and the names, grades, date of rank, and AFSCs of all RegAF and ARC officers of the proposed commander’s grade or higher who are assigned (see paragraph 3.4.) to the unit.  (T-3)   (4) Ensure there are not officers of a grade higher than the proposed commander assigned (see paragraph 3.4.) to the unit or a subordinate unit (look at copy of UMD obtained in step 3)  (T-0)   -  If the outgoing commander is of higher grade than the incoming commander, ensure the outgoing commander is removed from the UMD or on terminal leave IAW paragraph 3.6.6.4. prior to completing the order appointing the incoming commander.  (T-1)  The outgoing commander can be reassigned to his/her new unit or to a higher headquarters, pending formal reassignment. (5) If there is a reservist of higher grade, verify that the reservist will not serve a tour of 90 days or more of active duty (other than for training) under that PAS code for the duration of the commander’s term of command.  (AFI 51-604, para 9.2)  (T-1)   (6) If a judge advocate is being appointed to command, make sure they have express authorization of The Judge Advocate General (AFI 51-604, para 3.3.6.7).  (T-1)   (7) Verify the incoming commander is not a chaplain.  (10 USC § 3581 & AFI 51-604, para 3.3.6)  (T-0)   (8) Verify that the incoming commander will not be a student in the unit to be commanded (AFI 51-604, para 3.3.6.10)  (T-1)   (9) If the unit is a flying unit (Testing, Air Refueling, Airlift, etc.), ensure the incoming commander has a current aeronautical rating or crewmember certification, as defined by AFI 11-402, para 2.2 (except flight surgeons) and is and must be qualified for aviation service in the airframe flown by the unit to be commanded.  (AFI 51-604, para 10)  (T-1)   -  For assumptions of command, ensure the officer occupied an active flying position with an aircrew position indicator (API) of 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, or 9, IAW AFI 11-401, Table 2.1, at the time he/she assumed command.  (T-1)     -  Include SURF that shows pilot/crewmember rating and flying hours.  (T-3)   (10) If the unit does not have a primary mission involving health care or the health professions, ensure the incoming commander is not a nurse, medical, dental, veterinary, medical service, or biomedical sciences officer (check AFSCs listed on the UMD obtained in step 3).  (10 USC § 8579 and AFI 51604, para 3.3.6.8)  (T-0)   (11) If the unit’s primary mission involves health care or the health professions, make sure the incoming commander is a nurse, medical, dental, veterinary, medical service, or biomedical sciences officer (check AFSCs listed on the UMD obtained in step 3).       (10 USC § 8067 and AFI 51-604, para 3.3.6.9)  (T-0)   (12) If it is an appointment of a section commander, verify that the commander of that unit (same PAS Code) is on G-Series Orders.  If not, the unit cannot have a section commander. (T-1)  Note:  Section commanders are typically authorized for units with 250 or more military personnel authorized (AFI 38-101, para 4.3.3.4). (13) Document the announcement of command in memorandum format or on a Form 35.  (T-3)               AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 57 (a) If orders are to be written in memorandum format, refer to AFI 33-328 and AFI 51-604 paragraph 12 and sub-paragraphs (b)(i)-(iii), (v)-(xii) below for guidance (b) If orders are documented in a Form 35, refer to Figure A3.1. and the following: (i) Verify the dates are accurate (ii) Verify names of people and units are spelled correctly (iii)  Verify social security numbers (SSNs) are correct. (iv)  Ensure only one of Blocks 5-12 are used. (v) If a senior executive service (SES) federal employee is in the unit to be commanded and the incoming commander is an O-6 or below, ensure the SES is assigned to the appropriate rater (under AFPD 36-9, Senior Executive Resource Management, para 2, an SES employee cannot be rated by an O-6 or below or less than an SES).  Contact higher headquarters to reassign an SES to a different rater (vi) The orders publishing activity/organization shall request and obtain FSS or A1 review. (vii) Decide who will conduct the JA review. (viii) In Block 22 or the body of the G-series memorandum, ensure restrictions required by law or policy and attachment orders/MFRs (if relevant) are explicitly stated or incorporated by reference. (ix) If an appointment, ensure the proposed appointing authority (Block 20) has been delegated appointing authority for the unit to be commanded IAW AFPD 51-6, this instruction, or other publication/memorandum. (x) Ensure all necessary offices are included in the memo/Block 24.   (xi) If order numbers are issued by JA, make sure order is recorded in appropriate log.   (xii) Remind the orders publishing activity/organization that it is responsible for distributing copies of the order, as outlined in the memo/Block 24.                 58 AFI51-604  11 FEBRUARY 2016 SAMPLE LETTER FOR RELIEF OR SUSPENSION OF COMMAND Attachment 4               2 March 2015  MEMORANDUM FOR  LIEUTENANT COLONEL JEANNIE N. ABOTTLE  FROM:  3455 OG/CC  SUBJECT:  Relief of Command  1.  I have decided to relieve you of command of the 3455th Airlift Squadron, effective _______.  This is an assignment action only, in accordance with AFI 51-604, paragraph 14.1., and is not for cause.  or  1.  I have decided to relieve you of command of the 3455th Airlift Squadron, for cause, in accordance with AFI 51-604, paragraph 14.2., effective _______.    or  1.  I am concerned about your ability to command.  Thus, I have decided to suspend you from command of the 3455th Airlift Squadron, in accordance with AFI 51-604, paragraph 14.3., effective _______.  I _will  /  will not_ appoint a temporary commander of the 3455 AS during your suspension.  I anticipate making a final decision regarding your command authority by _________.  ********* The following paragraphs are to be used in all letters. ********  2.  I have reached this decision after careful consideration and after notifying __[enter the name of the next superior competent authority notified]____.    3.  [If officer is being relieved of command]  You may contact your career field manager or _____[name and rank (if applicable), office symbol, telephone number and e-mail]___ to begin working a follow-on assignment.   L. JEFE DELTODO, Colonel, USAF Commander, 3455th Operations Group  Received on _____________. [Date] _________________________________ JEANNIE N. ABOTTLE, Lt Col, USAF  