BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-607 20 NOVEMBER 2015   Certified Current 15 February 2017Financial Management FOREIGN MILITARY SALES DEDICATED TRAINING PROGRAM COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY `ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:  AFSAT/FM Supersedes:  AFI65-607, 17 February 2011 Certified by: SAF/FMB (Maj Gen James F. Martin, Jr.) Pages: 15 This  Instruction  implements  AFPD  65-6,  Budget  -)  in  conjunction  with  DoDD  5132.03, Department of Defense (DoD) Policy and Responsibilities Relating to Security Cooperation.   It acquaints  the  financial  community  with  legislative  provisions  and  policies  associated  with  the management of the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Dedicated Training Program.  It is applicable to  all Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and the Air National  Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC) as  a  MAJCOM  equivalent  for  managing  and  oversight  of  ANG  units  involved  in  Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Dedicated Training. This instruction is also applicable to the Euro-NATO Joint  Jet  Pilot  Training  (ENJJPT)  Program.    Any  exceptions  must  be  coordinated  with MAJCOM/ANGRC  and  approved  by  Air  Force  Security  Assistance  Training/Financial Management  (AFSAT/FM).    These  exceptions  must  be  included  in  dedicated  unit  Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).  Refer  recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847s from the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.    This  publication  may  be supplemented  at  any  level,  but,  all  direct  supplements  must  be  routed  to  the  OPR  of  this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. 2 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.  This revision includes regulations to identify established policies and procedures to execute the FMS Dedicated Training Program and comply with statutes regulations, international agreements and other authorities; updates guidance on allocating costs to the FMS partners. 1.  Overview.  An FMS Dedicated Training Program assigns or allocates specific resources and services for training and use by non-US personnel, e.g. an international flying training squadron. It does not include FMS training programs for which a tuition rate is established based on cost per  student.  Dedicated  training  programs  may  involve  one  or  more  nations  who  share  the resources and services of which the US may or may not be a participating nation. Training is not traditionally provided to US personnel unless they will be providing instruction or other services to the non-US personnel within the program (i.e., joint, cooperative, etc.). 2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 2.1.  SAF/FMB  Chief,  Policy  and  Fiscal  Control--will  have  final  review  and  SAF  level staffing prior to implementation. 2.2.  Air  Force  Security  Assistance  Training  (AFSAT)  Squadron  Director  of  Financial Management: Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for all financial issues concerning the FMS Dedicated Training Program.  As such it shall: 2.2.1.  Establish  and update  FMS financial  guidance  and procedures for implementation and  financial  management  of  dedicated  training  programs  to  ensure  consistency  and adherence to statutes, regulations, international agreements and other authorities. 2.2.2.  Provide guidance and instruction for resolving financial issues. 2.2.3.  Coordinate  any  changes  in  pricing  methodology  or  procedures  related  to  the dedicated  training  program  with  SAF/Financial  Management  and  Budget  Operations (SAF/FMBO) prior to implementation. 2.2.4.  Furnish  a  copy  of  command  and  field  financial  management  supplements  for dedicated  training  programs  to  SAF/FMBO  for  evaluation  and  approval  prior  to implementation. 2.2.5.  Review  and  approve  the  following  financial  documents  for  evaluating  cost allocations  and  methodology  used  to  price  the  Dedicated  Training  Program  for  AFSAT implemented  cases.    An  approval  memo  and  documentation  will  be  provided  to  the MAJCOM and ANG unit Comptrollers and/or case manager. 2.2.5.1.  Pre-LOR/LOA (Letter of Request/Letter of Offer and Acceptance): Price & Availability (P&A) and Letter of Offer and Acceptance Data (LOAD). 2.2.5.2.  Amendments/modifications and justifications to the implemented LOA. 2.2.5.3.  LOAD for follow-on case development. 2.2.5.4.  Selected annual billings. 2.2.6.  Provide guidance on current cost and planning factors. AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 3 2.2.7.  Conduct  periodic  site  visits  and  perform  financial  reviews  to  assist  with  the Dedicated  Training  Program  financial  execution  coordinated  through  the  office  of responsibility.    Verify  cost  allocations  and  expenditures  are  properly  documented  in sufficient detail to assure the propriety of the expenditure and provide an adequate audit trail. 2.2.8.  Provide MAJCOM and ANGRC unit comptroller personnel training related to the Dedicated Training Program, as required. 2.3.  MAJCOM and ANGRC will: 2.3.1.  Establish and maintain procedures to price, budget and execute Dedicated Training program  funds  following  DoD  and  AF  regulations  and  terms  and  conditions  of  the established recipient country/countries. agreement  between formal implementing agency and 2.3.2.  Assist  organizations  within  their  command  to  identify,  develop  and  report financial data related to dedicated training program activities. 2.3.3.  Request  evaluation  and  approval  from  AFSAT,  prior  to  using  any  unique  cost factors,  cost  estimating  relationships,  procedures  or  methods  related  to  the  dedicated training mission. 2.3.4.  Furnish  a  copy  of  command  and  field  financial  management  guidelines  for dedicated to implementation. to  AFSAT  for  evaluation  and  approval  prior training  programs 2.3.5.  Communicate and coordinate financial, logistical, and other pertinent information with  respective  Case  and  Program  Managers  as  required  by  Defense  Security Cooperation  Agency  (DSCA)    5105.38-M,  Chapter  6  Security  Assistance  Management Manual  (SAMM)  and  AFMAN  16-101,  International  Affairs  and  Security  Assistant Management,   effective  case  and/or  Dedicated  Training  Program management.   to  support 2.3.6.  Obtain actual costs and prepare reimbursement documents within 30 calendar days after the month in which performance occurred, IAW DoD FMR Volume 11A, Chapter 1, paragraph 010202. 2.3.7.  Establish  points  of  contact  for  financial  management  of  each  dedicated  training program and provide name, rank, office symbol and telephone number to AFSAT/FM. 2.3.8.  Provide  cost  estimates  to  the  program  manager  annually  and  as  requested.    Data should  reflect  estimated  direct  and  indirect  costs,  methodology  used  to  determine  cost and  sources  of  data  and/or  information,  e.g.,  Office  Under  Secretary  of  Defense (Comptroller)  Annual  Reimbursable  Rates    OUSD(C)  Memorandum  for  FYXX,  year-end certified financial obligations, 30 Sep XX year-end assigned positions as determined by SAF/Financial Management and Budget Programs (FMBP) and HAF A1M. 2.3.8.1.  Assist  program  manager  with  financial  documentation  for  pre-Letter  of Request  (LOR)/Letter  of  Offer  and  Acceptance  (LOA):  P&A  and  LOAD.  Documentation may include: 2.3.8.1.1.  Period of Performance (PoP) for the data: FYXX-XX. 4 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 2.3.8.1.2.  Description of priced elements: payroll, munitions, fuel, etc. 2.3.8.1.3.  Estimated cost by fiscal year. 2.3.8.2.  Provide  cost  estimates in  support  of  amendments/modifications  and justification  to  the  implemented  LOA  when  there  is  a  change  to  the  cost methodology. 2.3.8.3.  Forward annual billings selected for review. 3.  Pricing  Principles.  Approved  organizations  are  those  that  support  the  FMS  Program  or  a particular FMS partner by providing defense articles, defense services and training requested in the  LOA.      Organizations  should  be  classified  as  either  direct  (directly  involved  in  performing the  cost  object)  or  indirect  (performing  as  a  support  organization)  (reference  Attachment  2  for additional guidance). 3.1.  Allowable Direct Costs.  Authorized direct costs must be related, incurred for or benefit the  FMS  Dedicated  Training  Program.    Direct  costs  are  those  that  can  be  identified specifically with a particular final cost objective, i.e., contract, service, project or other direct activity. 3.1.1.  Direct  Dedicated  Costs.    These  costs  include  operating  and  manpower  expenses within the FMS organization or other organizations where direct support exists. 3.1.2.  Direct  Allocated  Costs.    These  costs  are  direct  allocated  expenses  that  should  be included  within  mission  areas.    Examples  would  be  operations  and  maintenance  not already accounted for within the allowable direct dedicated costs. 3.2.  Allowable  Indirect  Costs/Base  Operating  Support  (BOS).    DoDFMR,  Volume  15, Chapter 7 defines indirect costs as costs of resources that are jointly or commonly used by all activities at an installation, but are not specifically identifiable with any of the users.  Prorate costs using the total base population to FMS and dedicated personnel ratio as applicable. Where the Dedicated Training Program does not require the same level of indirect/ BOS support as  USAF  multiple  cost  pools  should  be  used  to  account  for  areas  of  reduced  support.  Indirect/BOS costs may be separated in multiple cost pools to more accurately allocate costs to benefits  received.   Be sure to  exclude indirect/BOS  accounted for as direct  dedicated program costs.  3.3.  Unallowable/Excludable  Costs.    To  comply  with  financial  policy  there  must  be conclusive  demonstration  that  actual  costs  are  being  incurred  for  the  FMS  Program.  Organizations  that  do  not  support  the  FMS  mission  or  provide  defense  articles,  defense services  or  training  related  to  the  FMS  Dedicated  Training  Program  will  be  excluded  from the  FMS  purchaser’s  billings  unless  AFSAT  reviews  and  approves  a  request  for consideration with justification. Exclusions.  In  accordance  with  DoDFMR,  Volume  15,  Chapter  7,  exclude  the  following  from indirect allocations:  AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 5 3.3.1.  Costs  associated  with  combat  development  and  training  that  offers  no  support  to the  training  mission,  and  a  pro  rata  share  of  school  overhead  costs  to  support  these elements (e.g., Airman Leadership School); 3.3.2.  Costs associated with  units attached to  the training installation with  duty stations at another location that are not involved in the training of international students; 3.3.3.  Costs  related  to  underutilized  capacity  and  mobilization  requirements,  when specifically identified and documented; and 3.3.4.  Costs  associated  with  USAF  dedicated  mission  e.g.,  flying  squadrons,  tech training schools. 4.  Pricing Elements.  When developing an LOA or annual budget, estimated costs will be based on  historical/projected  data  or  cost  factors.    Billing  data  will  be  based  on  actual  expenses  or approved composite rates (for civilian payroll, reference paragraph 4.2.1). 4.1.  Beddown  (Startup  costs).    The  FMS  purchaser  is  responsible  for  all  costs,  to  include expenses  incurred  by  the  USAF  activities  assisting  in  their  beddown.    See  examples  of authorized costs below: 4.1.1.  Environmental  Impact  Analysis,  Environmental  Assessment  or  Environmental Impact Statement.  IAW 32 CFR Part 989.7, Requests from Non-Air Force agencies and entities  (c)  The  Air  Force  may  require  the  requester  to  prepare,  at  the  requester's expense, an analysis of environmental impacts (40 CFR 1506.5), or the requester may be required to pay for an EA or EIS to be prepared by a contractor selected and supervised by the Air Force. 4.1.2.  Dedicated  Facility:  IAW  DoD  7000.14-R  Financial  Management  Regulation Volume  15,  Chapter  7,  costs  associated  with  construction,  alteration  or  expansion  of existing facilities and costs of acquisition of equipment required to execute the program.  Equipment,  other  than  Real  Property  Installed  Equipment  (RPIE)  purchased  through  an FMS case will remain the property of the country. 4.1.3.  Costs  Allocable  For  Jointly  Used  Facilities.    IAW  DoD  FMR,  Volume  15, Chapter 7, Paragraph 0709, when specific agreements or arrangements are made for the joint  use  of  United  States  Government  (USG)  facilities  (e.g.,  sharing  of  storage  spaces, dedicated training facilities), a pro rata share of the cost  must be charged to  the foreign purchaser.  Contact  CE  for  pricing  facility  cost  based  on  space  assigned,  personnel,  etc.  Any  special  requirements  for  the  exclusive  use  of  an  international  program  must  be reimbursed in full by the foreign purchaser.  4.1.4.  All costs associated with commercially leased space, to include off-base offices or on-base modular buildings. 4.1.5.  During  the  Site  Activation  Task  Force  (SATAF)  process,  one-time  cost  areas should  be  identified,  such  as  communications,  to  include  expansion  of  communication capacity,  computers,  network  connections,  furniture,  and  additional  support  equipment.  A separate start-up case may be required to fund these costs. 4.2.  Personnel  Services.    Manpower  requirements  and  development  will  be  in  accordance with  AFMAN  16-101  and  SAF/IAPX  memo  policies.    When  the  USG  agrees  to  support  the FMS partner, a manpower impact assessment is performed on the installation to determine if 6 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 USG personnel will be required to support the FMS mission. If the manpower study validates and  authorizes  additional  civilian  or  military  positions,  identified  as  allocated  or  dedicated, the  positions  are  included  in  the  UMD  once  approved.    Personnel  services  are  based  on authorized positions per SAF/FMBP and HAF A1M. 4.2.1.  Services  performed  by  DoD  civilian  personnel  must  be  charged  to  the  program based on actual base salary pay recorded in the accounting system with factored benefits costs. 4.2.1.1.  The Civilian Personnel Fringe Benefit Rate is applied to the base salary, with leave  and  holiday  acceleration  when  applicable,  to  recover  USG’s  contribution  of civilian employee benefits.  The Civilian Fringe Benefit Rates are published annually at the OUSD(C) reimbursement rates web site. 4.2.1.2.  The  Unfunded  Civilian  Retirement  (UCR)  factor  is  applied  to  the  base salary,  with  leave  and  holiday  acceleration  when  applicable,  to  recover  retirement, post-retirement  health  benefits  and  post-retirement  life  insurance  incurred  by  USG.  The UCR factor is published annually with Civilian Fringe Benefits Rates.  The UCR factor is  not  applied when calculating personnel  costs to  be reimbursed by  the FMS Administrative Surcharge Budget. 4.2.1.3.  Civilian  personnel  less  than  full  time.    To  ensure  compliance  with  the SAMM  and  DoD  FMR,  personnel  assigned  to  support  the  FMS  partner  on  a temporary  or  part-time  basis  must  be  monitored.    The  Program  and  Financial Managers  must  be  made  aware  of  specifics  (name,  grade,  duration,  etc.),  approve fund  availability  and  ensure  correct  reimbursement  to  the  O&M  account.    FMS Purchasers will only be billed for actual time supported.  Refer to DoDFMR, Vol 15, Ch 7, Figure 7-1. 4.2.2.  For  military  pay,  reimbursement  is  based  on  composite  pay.    Refer  to  current guidance updated annually by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (OUSD(C))  http://comptroller.defense.gov/rates/.   Ensure  that  Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Care (MERHC) and Defense Health Program (DHP) (acceleration factor) are reimbursed to the correct appropriation. 4.2.2.1.  When  the  mission  to  support  the  FMS  purchaser  is  identified,  a  manpower impact assessment is performed to determine if additional personnel will be required to  support  the  FMS  mission.    If  the  manpower  study  validates  and  authorizes additional civilian or military positions in the back shops, (identified as earned, case funded,  direct  case  or  dedicated),  the  authorized  position  salaries  become  an obligation  to  the  FMS  partner.    Where  the  entire  unit  is  FMS,  use  the  report  out  of Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS) filtered on duty status for unit assignment.  For  those  units  where  FMS  personnel  are  co-located/comingled  with  non-FMS personnel, a monthly headcount will be done for data costs. 4.2.2.2.  Assuming  the  manpower  impact  assessment  determined  15  manpower positions are required to  support the FMS mission.  Because the increased costs are due  to  the  FMS  mission  and  their  support,  the  FMS  purchaser  will  pay  the  actual costs of these personnel.  For pricing civilian and military personnel cost, refer to cost element  4.2,  Personnel  Services.    These  dedicated  personnel  should  be  performing AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 7 FMS  support  100%  of  their  time.    Using  Air  Force  policies  and  procedures,  if  the workload  does  not  merit  15  bodies,  a  decrease  in  personnel  should  be  considered.  Add other direct (supplies) and indirect/overhead (utilities) expenses. 4.2.2.3.  An alternative approach is to pro-rate personnel costs.   If the AF utilizes the dedicated  personnel  to  support  AF  or  other  tenants’  requirements,  the  time  spent supporting  others  should  be  tracked  and  supported  by  the  job  orders  and  Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) or other personnel activity reports.  Most civilian personnel  are paid out of O&M funds, therefore, if dedicated personnel perform AF maintenance, credit the FMS account or decrease charges to FMS.  If FMS perform maintenance  for  other  tenants,  charge  the  other  tenant  and  reimburse  O&M (decreasing costs to the FMS partner). 4.2.3.  Dedicated  personnel  support  the  FMS  partner  100%.    Dedicated  unit  funded authorization charges will be based on actual assigned personnel only. Do not charge for time spent fulfilling USAF requirements such as professional military education (PME), deployment,  contingency  taskings,  or  any  other  non-unit  related  duty,  that  exceeds  two weeks. 4.2.4.  Allocated  personnel  support  reimbursement  is  computed  based  on  cost  pool calculations (see attachment 2). 4.3.  Flight  line  operations.  Flight  line  operations  are  considered  direct  costs.  Whenever possible,  establish  a  separate  cost  center  to  capture  the  FMS  squadron’s  direct  operating expenses,  e.g.,  ground  fuel,  parts,  supplies,  equipment  repairs  and  other  services  separately from the host base’s costs. Capture expenses for associated supporting activities and prorate based on the  appropriate methodology used (refer to  attachment 2  for additional guidance).  Include transient and tenants in methodology. 4.4.  Backshop Maintenance.  The allocation of backshop costs, particularly bench stock, will be  reviewed  to  ensure  that  costs  are  captured  directly  or  allocated  proportionately  to  the international partner. 4.4.1.  Fly/Aircraft Consumables.  Establish a supply account for the international partner for items directly related to aircraft/tail. 4.4.2.  Fly/Equipment  Maintenance  Consumables.    If  applicable,  apply  allocation methodology approved by AFSAT/FM for those costs not associated to an aircraft/tail. 4.5.  Range  Support.    Normally,  range  costs  will  be  allocated  based  on  a  common methodology  (e.g.,  sorties/events/hours).    Multiple  range  events  can  be  logged  on  a  single aircraft sortie.  Charges for special DoD ranges, such as Nellis AFB, are normally based on requested  support  such  as  range  time  or  threat  equipment.    Range  costs  may  further  be broken  down  for  high  value  items  such  as  use  of  the  Aircraft  Maneuverability Instrumentation (ACMI). 4.6.  Tanker/Airlift  Support.    The  FMS  partner  is  responsible  for  actual  costs  of  tanker deployments and airlift support.  When this support is scheduled, the partner must ensure the supporting  Air  Mobility  Command/Financial  Management  Force  Support  Squadron (AMC/FMFSS) unit is aware this is an FMS requirement. 8 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 4.7.  Simulators.    Charges  for  simulator  expenses  vary.    DoD  FMR,  Vol.  15,  Chapter  7, Paragraph  071002-D.1.d,  under  the  Full  Cost  of  Training  paragraph  states  Simulator  costs must  include  pay  of  the  operators,  supplies,  and  equipment  maintenance.  Simulator  costs must be allocated to the course in the same ratio as hours used to the total hours available.  Note the examples provided below and charge accordingly. 4.7.1.  Simulator owned by the FMS partner. Some FMS partners have a contract for the operation  and  maintenance  of  the  simulators  which  include  supplies  required  to  repair and  maintain  them.    In  this  case  they  only  need  to  be  billed  for  the  indirect  cost  or expenses of maintaining the building in which the simulator is kept.  Example of indirect costs: utilities, supplies and maintenance (custodial, refuse pickup, etc.) 4.7.2.  FMS  partner  using  AF  simulators  and  personnel  support.    If  the  FMS  partner  is using AF equipment, charge a pro-rated share of operators’ pay, supplies and equipment maintenance. 4.8.  Munitions.  Charges  to  the  FMS  purchasers  are  based  on  actual  usage.    Contact  your servicing Munitions Accountability Section Office (MASO) to set up an account for the FMS partner.    The  MASO  can  provide  a  Combat  Ammunition  System  (CAS/AM903)  report monthly  or  upon  request  showing  items  and  quantities  used.    To  calculate  reimbursement, use the CAS/AM903 report and cost factors provided by Global Ammunition Control Point (GACP).  GACP point of contact  listing is  provided under AFI 65-503, US Air  Force Cost and Planning Factors..  For more information on munitions refer to AFI 11-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training. 4.9.  AVPOL.  Charge actual cost for aviation petroleum, oil and lubricants to support FMS partner owned or leased aircraft. 4.10.  Facilities.    Costs  include  maintenance  of  facilities  occupied,  e.g.,  office  space, warehouses.    Additionally,  bill  for  utilities,  refuse  collection,  custodial  services  and  repair and  minor  alterations,  including  replacement  of  minor  installations  and  fixed  equipment when damaged or worn beyond repair. When a specific agreement or arrangements are made for the joint use of USG facilities (shared storage spaces, dedicated training facilities, etc.), a pro-rated share of the operating cost financed by operating appropriations must be charged to the foreign purchaser. 4.11.  Construction.      All  costs  of  construction  or  expansion  of  facilities  desired  by  and  for the  exclusive  use  of  the  foreign  government  must  be  financed  and  funded  by  the  foreign government.  “Any expansion of facilities or equipment required for DoD use but, which may also be available for FMS, must be funded through the normal DoD budget process.” (DoD FMR, Vol. 15, Chapter 7) and allocated as an indirect cost. Element of Expense Investment Codes  (EEIC)  (Restoration  and  Modernization  Minor  Construction,  528XX;  Minor Construction,  529XX;  and  Contract  Engineering  Services,  532XX)  related  to  construction costs  for  repairs,  sustainment,  restoration  and  modernization  of  facilities  and  infrastructure for the base not specific to FMS should be excluded from billings to the FMS purchasers. 4.12.  Communications  and  Information  (telephone  services).    FMS  purchaser  will  pay  an allocated  portion  of  the  applicable  cost  of  communication  and  information  services.  Additionally,  charge  the  FMS  purchasers  for  specialized  equipment  attributable  to  their AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 9 support:  switchboards,  radio  transmitters  and  receivers,  telephone  exchanges  and  mobile communications, etc. 4.13.  Environmental  Cleanup/Compliance.    AFI  32-7001,  Environmental  Management indicates  that  the  AF  receives  funding  (appropriated  through  Congress)  to  cleanup  past violations, annual fees, etc. 4.13.1.  Any environmental support costs or violations caused by the FMS mission to the base will be the FMS purchaser’s responsibility. 4.13.2.  Should  an  incident  occur  involving  an  FMS  purchaser,  the  host  installation  and major command will provide all required support, gather financial data and then collect from the FMS purchasers to ensure no cost to the USG (AFI 65-601, V1, Chapters 7 and 10). 4.14.  Ferry Support.  The FMS partner is responsible for actual costs of ferry support.  When this  support  is  scheduled,  the  customer  must  ensure  the  supporting  (Air  Combat Command/Air Operations Squadron (ACC/AOS), and ACC/IA Internal Affairs) unit is aware this is an FMS requirement. 4.15.  Contracts.    IAW  SAMM,C6.3.1,  Compliance  with  DoD  Regulations  and  Procedures, “Compliance with DoD Regulations and Procedures.  Acquisition for FMS purchasers must be in accordance with DoD regulations and other applicable USG procedures. This affords the foreign purchaser the same benefits and protection that apply to DoD procurement and is one of the principal reasons why foreign governments and international organizations prefer to  procure  through  FMS  channels.  FMS  requirements  may  be  consolidated  with  USG requirements or placed on separate contract whichever is more expedient and cost effective. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provisions applicable to the DoD also apply to FMS procurements. While all FAR and Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) clauses apply to FMS procurements, Table C6.T1. lists selected sections with unique application to FMS”.  To the maximum  extent  feasible  and  appropriate,  if  the  FMS  purchaser  has  a  requirement  that results in a contract, direct cite the contract, i.e., cite the country’s accounting classification on  the  purchase  request.    If  a  contract  is  approved  that  requires  cost  sharing,  prorate  cost based on agreed terms. 4.16.  Asset  Use.    IAW  DoD  FMR,  Vol.  l5,  Chapter  7,  paragraph  070104.C.8.  asset  use charges are not charged to the FMS partner. 4.17.  Field  Studies  Program.    This  program  is  optional  for  the  international  students  and coordinated between AFSAT/MS and base IMSO. 4.18.  Miscellaneous  Activities.    Other  activities,  such  as  Morale,  Welfare  and  Recreation (MWR), officer or enlisted clubs, and community services support the FMS partner, but the costs are accommodated through user fees.  4.19.  Housing and Lodging Services.  The FMS partner is responsible for paying all student support costs outside the FMS process while the international students are in training unless DSCA  approves  a  waiver;  All  other  international    personnel  must  pay  housing/lodging service charges directly. 4.20.  Transportation/TDY.  The FMS partner is responsible for all costs associated with their activities  related  to  both  commercial  and  government-owned  transportation  and  temporary 10 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 duty travel costs.  When this support is ordered, the customer must ensure the supporting unit is  aware  this  is  an  FMS  requirement.    Allocate  costs  appropriately  when  joint  training (FMS/DoD) occurs. Note:    Per  SAMM,  Table  C9.T2,  when  individuals  not  normally  associated  with  the  dedicated program are required to travel in support of the program, salary and benefits will be charged as appropriate.  5.  Records  management.  IAW  DoD  FMR,  Vol  15,  paragragh  060102.D,  “The  record retention  period  for  FMS  documents  is  10  years  from  the  date  of  final  case  closure.  For  more detailed  guidance,  see  Defense  Finance  and  Accounting  Service  (DFAS)  Disposition Schedules  50  15.2-M,  Volume  2,  "Schedule  7360,  FMS  Records”.  The  Defense  Security Cooperation  Agency  (DSCA)  may  issue  exceptions  to  this  retention  period,  e.g.,  for  records associated with ongoing litigation proceedings and country suspensions.” Case Managers must ensure  accessibility  to  retired  files,  source  documents,  invoices,  bills  of  lading,  other  proof  of shipments  and  other  applicable  documents  that  provide  the  audit  trail  to  account  for  USG  and purchaser funds. Dispose of reporting forms and financial records as prescribed by AFI 33-364, Records Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities.  LISA S. DISBROW Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller) AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 11 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ATTACHMENT 1 References AFI 11-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, 23 Aug 2013 AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 16 Apr 2015 AFI 33-364, Records Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006 AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 Feb 1994 AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 Aug 2012 AFMAN 16-101, International Affairs and Security Assistant Management, 15 Feb 2011 AFPD 65-6, Budget, 1 May 1998 DSCA Manual 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management Manual (SAMM), 4 Apr 2012 DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation DoDD 5132.03, DoD Policy and Responsibilities Relating to Security Cooperation, 24 Oct 2008 Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation System (DFARS, 26 Jun 2015 Title 22, U.S.C., Section 2751et seq., Arms Export Control Act Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACMI—Aircraft Maneuverability Instrumentation AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training ANG—Air National Guard BOS—Base Operating Support CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CE—Civil Engineer CMCS—Case Management Control System CS—Communications Squadron DHP—Defense Health Program DoD—Department of Defense DoD FMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code 12 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 FMS—Foreign Military Sales GACP—Global Ammunition Control Point IA— Implementing Agency IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System LOA—Letter of Offer and Acceptance LOAD—Letter of Offer and Acceptance Data LOR—Letter of Request MAJCOM—Major Command MASO—Munitions Accountability Section Office MERHC—Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Care MILCON—Military Construction MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OUSD(C)—Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) PEC—Program Element Code PME—Professional Military Education PoP—Period of Performance P&A—Pricing & Availability RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment SAMM—Security Assistance Management Manual SATAF—Site Activation Task Force SOP—Standard Operating Procedures UCR—Unfunded Civilian Retirement UMD—Unit Manning Document USG—United States Government Terms Basing—Actions  taken  to  position  Air  Force  units  (on  AF  or  non-AF  property)  or  non-USAF entities  on  USAF  real  property.  Basing  is  the  process  used  to  determine  the  location  of  a  unit, manpower, mission, or activity. Beddown—Establishing  a  unit, mission,  activity,  or  personnel  on  real  property  for  longer  than one  year.  This  applies  to  activities  of  all  military  branches,  other  DoD,  non-DoD  federal,  state and  local  governmental,  and/or  private  agencies  requesting  the  use  of  Air  Force  real  property. Beddown is considered the execution of a basing action. AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 13 Dedicated  Positions—Personnel  assigned  to  support  FMS  purchaser  100%  and  should  not perform duties for other activities. FMS  partner/purchaser—New  terms  for  the  Foreign  Military  Sales  customer.    The  terms replaced “customer” throughout the DoD FMR. Total  Base  Population—Includes  military  personnel,  appropriated  fund  civilians  (including Reserve technicians), non-appropriated fund civilians, contractors and tenant activities.  Do not include geographically separated units (GSUs) or military retirees.  14 AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 ATTACHMENT 2 PRICING PRINCIPLES Table A2.1.  Direct Pricing. Table A2.2.  Indirect Pricing.   AFI65-607  20 NOVEMBER 2015 15 Table A2.3.  Exclude Pricing.   