BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-145 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Acquisition MANUFACTURING AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/AQRE  Supersedes:  AFI63-501, 31 May 1994  Certified by: SAF/AQR  (Dr. David E. Walker) Pages: 16 This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, DoD  Instruction  5000.02,  Operation  of  the  Defense  Acquisition  System.    It  complements  the manufacturing  and  quality  directive  guidance  in  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, by providing direction for program offices and implementing commands to execute manufacturing and quality management activities during the development, acquisition, production, modification, and sustainment of AF weapon systems.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but to ensure standardization, any organization supplementing this instruction must send the implementing publication to Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force  for  Acquisition  Integration  (SAF/AQX)  for  review  and  coordination  before  publishing.  This  publication  applies  to  all  military  and  civilian  AF  personnel  including  major  commands (MAJCOM),  direct  reporting  units  (DRU)  and  field  operating  agencies  (FOA),  and  to  other individuals or organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air Force (DAF).  It does not apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve. The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms Management,  Table  1.1,  for  a  description  of  the authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    In  accordance  with  the  acquisition  chain  of  authority  specified  in  AFI 63-101/20-101,  mandates  to  the  acquisition  execution  chain  are  not  considered  Wing  level mandates and tiering does not apply.  All other unmarked mandates in this publication are treated as T-1.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the publication OPR. 2 AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  SAF/AQRE  using  the  AF Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication.  Route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field through  MAJCOM  publications/forms  managers.  Forward  all  comments  regarding  this  AFI  to: usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqre-workflow@mail.mil. Ensure all records created as a result of  the  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  substantially  revised  and  requires  a  complete  review.    It  has  been updated  to  align  with  the  current  life  cycle  management  framework  and  new  AF  organization titles.    It  provides  guidance  for  program  offices  to  use  SAE  AS6500,  Manufacturing Management  Program.    It  also  requires  programs  to  have  contractor  quality  management systems  that  are  compliant  with  one  of  the  commonly-used  industry  quality  management standards.    For  assessments  of  manufacturing  maturity,  this  document  requires  the  use  of manufacturing readiness levels (MRL) as described in the DoD Manufacturing Readiness Level Deskbook. 1.  Overview. 1.1.  Applicability.  This instruction contains the directive processes and procedures required for execution of lifecycle manufacturing and quality management activities.  It is applicable to  all  programs  covered  by  DoDI  5000.02  and  AFI  63-101/20-101.    Logistics  readiness, maintenance,  and  materiel  management  quality  assurance  is  covered  by  20-,  21-,  and  23-series AF policy and  guidance documents.  Contracting quality  assurance  policy is  covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and its supplements. 1.2.  Scope.    The  AF  program  execution  chain,  consisting  of  the  Service  Acquisition Executive  (SAF/AQ),  Program  Executive  Officers  (PEO),  and  program  managers  (PM),  is responsible  for  assuring  the  manufacturability  and  quality  of  assigned  products.    PMs  are primarily responsible for the execution of the manufacturing and quality  management tasks in  this  instruction.    The  PM  relies  on  the  Product  Support  Manager,  the  Lead  Systems Engineer,  contracting,  and  quality  assurance  personnel  to  accomplish  manufacturing  and quality  management  tasks.    These  positions  are  supported  by  personnel  throughout  the integrated life cycle management process who are responsible for performing manufacturing and quality management functions that are inherent in their assigned duties. 1.3.  Organization.  This instruction is organized to identify: 1.3.1.  The  core  manufacturing  and  quality  management  planning,  contract implementation, and manufacturing assessment activities that are considered and applied iteratively throughout the program life cycle (See paragraph 3 and subparagraphs). 1.3.2.  The specific tasks and emphasis areas that are typically required for each life cycle phase (See paragraph 4 and subparagraphs). 1.4.  Tailoring.  PMs, with Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) approval, retain the ability to tailor and streamline strategies, oversight, reviews, phases, decision levels, documentation, AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 3 regulatory  requirements  and  information  consistent  with  the  tailoring  guidance  in  AFI  63-101/20-101  and  DoDI  5000.02.    Tailoring  is  especially  appropriate  for  programs  that  are rapidly fielding capabilities or that have a reduced level of developmental effort, for example the acquisition of commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) systems. 1.5.  Compliance.  Compliance “shall” and “will” statements have been reduced throughout this AFI.  Consistent with AFI 33-360, “the absence of ‘punitive’ language in a paragraph of a  publication  does  not  mean  compliance  is  optional,  or  that  a  military  member  or  civilian employee cannot be disciplined for violating non-punitive requirements in a publication.  All AF  personnel  must  comply  with  both  punitive  and  non-punitive  mandatory  guidance  in publications.”  The AF is reducing compliance statements, or tiering them for Wing-level and below waiver authority, for all publications in order to reduce unnecessary resource tasking, funding, and/or inspection requirements. 2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 2.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall: 2.1.1.  Function as the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) lead for manufacturing and quality management. 2.1.2.  Establish Department policy and directive guidance for manufacturing and quality management  activities  conducted  as  a  part  of  the  integrated  life  cycle  management  of systems. 2.1.3.  Provide advocacy through the Defense Acquisition Regulation (DAR) system for the  appropriate  inclusion  of  manufacturing  and  quality  management  requirements  in contracting  regulations  (including  representation  on  the  DAR  Quality  Assurance committee). 2.2.  MAJCOM Commanders shall provide feedback on product quality deficiencies through appropriate deficiency reporting systems (e.g. the Joint Deficiency Reporting System). 2.3.  In  addition  to  the  responsibilities  in  paragraph  2.2.,  the  Commanders  of  Air  Force Materiel Command and Air Force Space Command (AFMC/CC and AFSPC/CC) shall: 2.3.1.  Provide  manufacturing  and  quality  management  technical  advice  and  subject matter expertise to program offices. 2.3.2.  Cross-feed  manufacturing  and  quality  management  lessons-learned  and  best practices among programs and across centers. 2.3.3.  Establish and maintain standard AF product deficiency reporting capabilities (e.g. Technical  Order  (T.O.)  00-35D-54,  USAF  Deficiency  Reporting,  Investigation,  and Resolution)  that  can  channel  feedback  from  product  testers,  users  and  maintainers  to program  offices  and  allow  programs  to  track  quality  conditions  during  operations  and support (O&S). 2.4.  PEOs establish processes for their assigned programs to accomplish manufacturing and quality management objectives across the portfolio. 2.5.  PMs shall: 4 AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 2.5.1.  Assign  manufacturing  and  quality  management  responsibilities  to  specific personnel within the program office. 2.5.2.  Integrate  manufacturing  and  quality  management  across  the  integrated  product team  (IPT)  structure.    Note:  This  does  not  necessarily  require  the  establishment  of specific manufacturing or quality management teams. 2.5.3.  Include  quality  and  manufacturing  requirements  in  contracts  and  in  appropriate agreements  with  other  agencies,  e.g.,  the  Defense  Contract  Management  Agency (DCMA). 2.5.4.  Assess manufacturing readiness as part of program milestone decision points and major design reviews. 2.5.5.  Establish  manufacturing  and  quality  metrics  for  the  program’s  products  and review  metrics  at  a  frequency  that  enables  effective  risk  handling  by  the  program’s manufacturing and quality efforts. 3.  Manufacturing and Quality Management Core Activities. 3.1.  PMs  apply  the  following  manufacturing  and  quality  management  planning,  contract implementation, and assessment and reporting activities iteratively throughout the life cycle. 3.1.1.  Planning for Manufacturing and Quality Management.  Beginning in the Materiel Solution  Analysis  phase,  and  continuing  throughout  the  life  cycle,  PMs  shall  use  the requirements in Attachment 2 to integrate planning for the program’s manufacturing and quality  management  approach  into  the  strategic  and  technical  documentation  that  is required  by  DoDI  5000.02  and  AFI  63-101/20-101.    PMs  update  this  planning  as  the program manufacturing and quality risks evolve during Technology Maturation and Risk Reduction  (TMRR),  Engineering  and  Manufacturing  Development  (EMD),  and Production and Deployment.  Use Military Handbook (MIL-HDBK)-896, Manufacturing Management  Program  Guide,  as  a  guide  in  developing  the  program’s  approach  to manufacturing  and  quality.    The  DoD  Manufacturing  Management  Guide  for  Program Managers provides additional manufacturing guidance.  The PM also: 3.1.2.  Incorporates  continuous  process  improvement  into  program  manufacturing  and quality planning. 3.1.3.  Evaluates  contractor  planning  documents,  developed the manufacturing and quality management system requirements in paragraph 3.2., to ensure that government and contractor planning evolve in tandem throughout the life cycle. in  response to 3.2.  Manufacturing  and  Quality  Management  Requirements  in  Contracts  and  Contract Monitoring.    PMs  shall  include  contract  quality  assurance  requirements  IAW  FAR  Part  46 and Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) 246 “Quality Assurance.” 3.2.1.  In  addition,  the  PM  addresses  the  manufacturing  and  quality  management requirements  at  Attachment  3  in  contracts.    Alternatively,  the  PM  can  include  in  the Systems  Engineering  Plan  (SEP)  the  program’s  equivalent  approach  for  meeting  the requirements or identify why the requirements do not apply to the program 3.2.2.  Manufacturing and quality assurance criteria and requirements are reflected in the program’s quality assurance surveillance planning, that describes how, when, where, and AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 5 by  whom  the  Government  surveys,  observes,  tests,  samples,  inspects,  evaluates,  or documents  contractor  results  to  determine  whether  the  contractor  has  met  the  required standards for each inspectable item in the contract. 3.2.2.1.  In  addition  to  FAR  46.4  and  DFARS  246.4,  see  FAR  37.6  “Performance-Based Acquisition,” and DFARS 237.1, “Service Contracts-General.” 3.2.2.2.  If  another  organization  is  performing  contract  surveillance  on  behalf  of  the program  office  (e.g.  DCMA),  the  program  includes  specific  methods  and  criteria  in surveillance and monitoring agreements. 3.3.  Assessing and Reporting Manufacturing Readiness. 3.3.1.  For  all  AF  programs  (with  the  exception of  Automated  Information  Systems),  to include  modifications,  PMs  assess  manufacturing  readiness  prior  to  the  Preliminary Design  Review  (PDR),  the  Critical  Design  Review  (CDR),  Milestone  C,  and  the  Full-Rate  Production  (FRP)  Decision  Point.    Programs  with  high  manufacturing  risk  should monitor  and  assess  manufacturing  readiness  more  frequently.    If  system  production  has stopped for more than one year or if production is restarted under another manufacturer, PMs  assess  manufacturing  readiness  prior the  production  restart  decision.  Assessments should also evaluate the readiness of contractor, DoD depot, and AF organic organizations  to  execute  manufacturing  activities  during  system  operations  and  support (O&S). to 3.3.1.1.  The  standardized  DoD  MRLs  provide  efficient  and  objective  measures  of manufacturing maturity.  Programs use MRLs in their assessments of manufacturing readiness at http://www.dodmrl.com/.) the  DoD  Manufacturing  Readiness  Level  Deskbook (see 3.3.1.2.  The  program’s  Industrial  Base  Assessments  (required  by  DoDI  5000.60, Defense Industrial Base Assessments, and AFI 63-101/20-101) provide data that can inform  manufacturing  readiness  assessments  and  can  be  influenced  by  the  program manufacturing management approach. 3.3.2.  The  PM  summarizes  the  results  of  manufacturing  readiness  assessments  in  the “Industrial Capability and Manufacturing Readiness” section of the Acquisition Strategy.  Manufacturing risks are incorporated into the program’s risk management matrix that is required  by  AFI  63-101/20-101  to  be  presented  at  all  program  reviews,  to  include technical  reviews  and  Milestone  decision  points.    The  program  presents  a  chart  that summarizes  the  results  of  manufacturing  readiness  assessments  at  reviews  for  the Milestone  C  and  the  FRP  Decision  Points.  For  space  vehicle  systems,  this  chart  is required at CDR. 4.  Manufacturing and Quality Management Life Cycle Phase Tasks.  In addition to the core activities in paragraph 3 that PMs apply iteratively throughout the life cycle, the following tasks and emphasis areas are required in specific life cycle phases. 4.1.  Manufacturing  and  Quality  Management  during  Material  Solution  Analysis.    The  PM ensures  that  the  initial  Acquisition  Strategy  and  SEP  prepared  for  the  next  life  cycle  phase reflect manufacturing and quality risks identified in the AoA or Concept Characterization and Technical Description (CCTD), and include the minimum required content at Attachment 2.  6 AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 The  PM  should  incorporate  assessments  of  manufacturing  capabilities  and  risks,  if appropriate  and  available,  to  support  initial  technical  reviews  and  the  alternative  systems reviews. 4.2.  Manufacturing and Quality Management during TMRR. 4.2.1.  Manufacturing Management.  During TMRR, the program initiates manufacturing technology  development  efforts  to  address  identified  manufacturing  risks.    The  PM accomplishes the following phase-specific activities: 4.2.1.1.  Evaluate  the  contractor’s  initial  manufacturing  plan,  developed  IAW  the contract’s manufacturing management system requirement, and adjust program office manufacturing management activities, as required. 4.2.1.2.  Perform  an  initial  assessment  of  the  producibility  and  manufacturability  of key technologies and components prior to PDR (see paragraph 3.3).  The assessment at  this  stage  should  be  focused,  at  a  minimum,  on  understanding  critical manufacturing processes, the status of production scale-up efforts, and awareness of potential supply chain issues. 4.2.1.3.  Evaluate the pre-Milestone B industrial base assessment (IBA) for industrial base risks, and adjust manufacturing management activities, as required. 4.2.2.  Quality  Management.    During  TMRR,  the  program  initiates  the  assessment  of quality  assurance  program  risks  and  the  development  of  quality  metrics.    The  PM accomplishes  the  appropriate  core  activities  required  by  paragraph  3,  with  an  emphasis on  evaluating  the  contractor’s  initial  program-specific  Quality  Plan  developed  IAW  the contract Quality Management System (QMS) requirements, and adjusting program office quality management activities, as required. 4.3.  Manufacturing and Quality Management during EMD. 4.3.1.  Manufacturing  Management.    During  EMD,  the  program  matures  manufacturing capabilities in preparation for low rate initial production (LRIP).  The PM accomplishes the  following  phase-specific  manufacturing  readiness  assessment  activities  (see paragraph 3.3.) in support of CDR and Milestone C. 4.3.1.1.  In  support  of  CDR,  assessments,  at  a  minimum,  consist  of:  a  review  of contractor manufacturing management plans, metrics, identified manufacturing  risks and  their  associated  handling  plans,  and  other  data  required  by  contract;  a confirmation that manufacturing processes have been demonstrated in an appropriate environment;  an  analysis  of  the  industrial  base  capability  to  support  production, confirming the  supply  chain  (including  sole/single/foreign  sources  and obsolescence  issues)  is  stable,  adheres  to  security  requirements,  and  that  viable alternative  sources  are  identified.    NOTE:  Consult  the  IBA,  when  available,  for information on industrial base risks. that 4.3.1.2.  Prior to Milestone C or CDR for space vehicle systems, these assessments, at a  minimum,  consist  of:  a  review  of  contractor  manufacturing  management  plans, metrics,  and  other  data  required  by  contract;  a  confirmation  that  manufacturing processes are demonstrated to verify that process capability data meets targets; that an AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 7 effective  production  control  system  is  in  place;  and  that  known  producibility  issues are resolved and pose no significant risk for production. 4.3.2.  Quality  Management.    During  EMD,  the  PM  accomplishes  the  appropriate  core activities identified in paragraph 3, with an emphasis on: 4.3.2.1.  Reviewing  available  contractor  data    (e.g.  audit  results,  trend  data, problem/deficiency  resolution,  scrap/rework/repair  status  and  cost,  sub-tier/supplier management,  updates  to  manufacturing  risk  handling  efforts)  to  evaluate  the contractor’s quality program in preparation for production. 4.3.2.2.  Implementing  contract  quality  assurance  monitoring  and  surveillance,  to include  the  execution  of  Memorandums  of  Understanding  (MOU)  with  outside organizations (e.g. DCMA, center, or air logistics complexes), if necessary. 4.4.  Manufacturing and Quality Management during Production and Deployment. 4.4.1.  Manufacturing  Management.    During  Production  and  Deployment,  the  PM performs the appropriate iterative activities described in paragraph 3.  The purpose of the pre-FRP  decision  point  manufacturing  readiness  assessment,  required  by  paragraph  3.3, is to determine whether the contractor manufacturing processes have been demonstrated to  be  in  control.    The  PM  reports  the  assessment  finding(s)  as  a  part  of  the  reviews supporting the FRP decision. 4.4.2.  Quality Management.  During Production and Deployment, the PM accomplishes the appropriate core activities identified in paragraph 3, with an emphasis on: 4.4.2.1.  Monitoring and reviewing production metrics and data (e.g. non-conforming materials,  dispositions,  failure  reporting,  audits,  customer  satisfaction,  assignable causes,  corrective  actions,  and  assessments  of  effectiveness)  to  ensure  that  program quality  goals  are  being  met  and  that  improvement  efforts  are  implemented  where goals are not met. 4.4.2.2.  Tracking  metrics  related  to  the  quality  of  critical  components  and/or  parts from subcontractors. 4.5.  Manufacturing and Quality Management during O&S. 4.5.1.  Manufacturing Management.  During O&S, the PM accomplishes the appropriate core activities identified in paragraph 3, with an emphasis on: 4.5.1.1.  Assessing  the  capability  of  contractor,  DoD  depot,  or  AF  organic maintenance  organizations  to  execute  new  manufacturing  activities  during  O&S  as required by paragraph 3.3.  Assessments, at a minimum, consist of: 4.5.1.1.1.  A  review  of  performance  during  operations  including  manufacturing management plans, metrics, and other data required by contract. 4.5.1.1.2.  A finding that depot manufacturing processes are demonstrated to be in control. 4.5.1.2.  Validating that industrial base capabilities and supply chains remain in place to meet Operations and Support requirements. AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 4.5.2.  Quality  Management.    During  O&S,  the  PM  accomplishes  the  appropriate  core activities identified in paragraph 3, with an emphasis on: 4.5.2.1.  Validating  that  contractor,  DoD  depot,  and  AF  organic  maintenance  QMSs are consistent with the program planned approach for O&S quality management. 4.5.2.2.  Reviewing  the  performance  of  and  outputs  from  deficiency  reporting systems  to  ensure  that  they  provide  technical,  engineering,  and  product  quality feedback throughout O&S. 8  DARLENE J. COSTELLO Performing the Duties of Principal Deputy Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition & Logistics) AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References FAR Part 37, “Performance-Based Acquisition” FAR Part 46, “Quality Assurance” FAR Subpart 9.3, “First Article Testing and Approval” CJCSI 3170.01, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), 23 January 2015 DoD Directive 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003 DoD Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 7 January 2015 DoD Instruction 5000.60, Defense Industrial Base Assessments, 18 July 2014 DoD Manufacturing Readiness Level Deskbook, October 2012Defense Acquistion Guidebook, 8 May 2013 DFARS 237, “Service Contracts” DFARS 246, “Quality Assurance” AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon System, 8 March 2007 AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012 AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFI 20-106 (IP), Management of Aviation Critical Safety Items, 25 January 2006 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 62-601, USAF Airworthiness, 11 June 2010 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 November 2011 MIL-HDBK-896, Manufacturing Management Program Guide, 25 August 2016 SMC-S-003, Quality Space and Launch Requirements Addendum to SAE AS9100C, 2015 DoD Manufacturing Management Guide for Program Managers, 16 October 2012 ISO 9000, Quality Management Systems - Fundamentals and Vocabulary, 2015 ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems - Requirements, 2015 SAE AS6500, Manufacturing Management Program, 13 November 2014 SAE AS9017, Control of Aviation Critical Safety Items, 6 November 2009 10 AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 SAE AS9100, Quality Management Systems - Requirements for Aviation, Space and Defense Organizations, 15 January 2009 SAE AS9110, Quality Management Systems - Requirements for Aviation Maintenance Organizations, 26 April 2012 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACAT—Acquisition Category AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFSPC—Air Force Space Command AoA—Analysis of Alternatives CCTD—Concept Characterization and echnical Description CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf CSI—Critical Safety Items CDR—Critical Design Review DAF—Department of the Air Force DAR—Defense Acquisition Regulation DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff DFARS—Defense FAR Supplement DoD—Department of Defense DRI&R—Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution DRU—Direct Reporting Unit EMD—Engineering and Manufacturing Development FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation FOA—Field Operating Agency FRP—Full-Rate Production HAF—Headquarters Air Force AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 11 IAW—In Accordance With IBA—Industrial Base Assessment IMP—Integrated Master Plan IMS—Integrated Master Schedule IP—Interservice Publication IPT—Integrated Product Team ISO—International Organization for Standards JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System LCSP—Life Cycle Sustainment Plan LRIP—Low Rate Initial Production MAJCOM—Major Command MDA—Milestone Decision Authority MIL-HDBK—Military Handbook MOU—Memorandums of Understanding MRL—Manufacturing Readiness Levels OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility O&S—Operations and Support PDR—Preliminary Design Review PEO—Program Executive Officer PM—Program Manager POC—Point of Contact QA—Quality Assurance QMS—Quality Management System RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAE AS—Society of Automotive Engineers International Aerospace Standard SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SEP—Systems Engineering Plan SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center TMRR—Technology Maturation and Risk Reduction T.O—Technical Order TPM—Technical Performance Measures 12 Terms AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Quality—The degree to which material attributes, performance features, and characteristics of a product  satisfy  a  given  need.  Quality  may  apply  to  a  product,  process,  or  system  and  may  be physical, sensory, behavioral, temporal, ergonomic, or functional. Quality  Assurance  (QA)—That  part  of  quality  management  focused  on  providing  confidence that quality requirements will be fulfilled. (ISO 9000:2015 and Defense Acquisition Guidebook) Quality  Management—The  coordinated  activities  to  direct  and  control  an  organization  with regard  to  quality  policy,  quality  objectives,  quality  planning,  quality  control,  quality  assurance and quality improvement. (ISO 9000:2015) Quality Management System—That part of the organization's management system that focuses on  the  achievement  of  results,  in  relation  to  the  quality  objectives,  to  satisfy  the  needs, expectations and requirements of interested parties, as appropriate. (ISO 9000:2015)  AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 13 MANUFACTURING AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLANNING REQUIREMENTS Attachment 2 integrating A2.1.  IAW  paragraph  4.1., manufacturing and quality management planning into the strategic and technical documentation required by DoDI 5000.02 and AFI 63-101/20-101. this  attachment  outlines the  requirements  for A2.1.1.  Programs,  especially  those  with  manufacturing  or  quality  risks,  should  consider using  focused  manufacturing  or  quality  plans  (e.g.  a  program  Quality  Assurance  Plan)  to document and guide the program’s approach. A2.1.2.  If  the  program  develops  detailed,  standalone  government  manufacturing  or  quality plans,  reference  them  in  and  attach  them  to  the  SEP  to  preserve  integration  with  the program’s overall engineering and technical approach. A2.2.  Acquisition  Strategy.    The  “Industrial  Capability  and  Manufacturing  Readiness”  section  includes  summaries  of  how  the  program  uses  manufacturing  management  and  quality management systems to contribute to the minimization of cost, schedule, and performance risks throughout  the  product  life  cycle.    It  also  briefly  summarizes  the  results  of  manufacturing readiness  assessments  and  strategies  for  sustaining  industrial  capability  for  the  product  (e.g. identification of sole/ foreign sources, product technology obsolescence, replacement of limited-life items, and regeneration options for unique manufacturing processes), if applicable. A2.3.  The  Systems  Engineering  Plan  (SEP).  Integrate  manufacturing  and  quality  topics  and planning into the SEP. A2.3.1.  Include  manufacturing  and  quality  risks,  if  they  have  been  identified,  in  the “Engineering and Integration Risk Management” section. A2.3.2.  Identify  the  program  manufacturing  and  quality  management  points  of  contact (POC)  and  describe  how  manufacturing  and  quality  management  execution  responsibilities are allocated in the program IPT structure in the “Technical Organization” section. A2.3.3.  Include  manufacturing  metrics  in  the  minimum  set  of  technical  performance measures  (TPM)  that  DoD  requires  in  the  “Technical  Performance  Measures  and  Metrics” section in order to provide quantitative insight into how the program is executing to plan. A2.3.4.  Document  how  the  program  establishes  government-contractor  manufacturing management and quality management systems in the “Design Considerations” section. A2.3.4.1.  Include  specific  manufacturing  and  quality  contractual  requirements    in  the “Mapping Key Design Considerations into Contracts” matrix. A2.3.4.2.  Programs placing industry or military manufacturing and quality management system  standards  on  contract,  per  Attachment  3,  list  these  standards  by  identification number  in  the  matrix  under  “Contractual  Requirements.”    Programs  not  using  these standards attach a report, under “Documentation (Hotlinks),” describing how the program has  implemented  a  customized  manufacturing  and  quality  management  system  that  is consistent with industry standards. A2.3.4.3.  Indicate  connections  between  manufacturing  and  quality  management  and other  design  considerations.    For  instance,  manufacturing  and  quality  management 14 AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 processes  directly  support  the  issuance  of  military  certificates  of  airworthiness,  which certify that each delivered aircraft complies with the system’s approved design (see AFI 62-601,  USAF  Airworthiness).    They  support  similar  certification  processes  for  space vehicles and launch vehicles, as well. A2.4.  Integrated  Master  Plan  and  Integrated  Master  Schedule  (IMP/IMS).    Based  on  the Acquisition Strategy and the SEP, include key manufacturing activities in the IMP/IMS. A2.5.  Life-Cycle Sustainment Plan (LCSP).  Briefly describe how the program achieves quality management objectives during O&S. A2.5.1.  Identify whether the program requires contractor, DoD depot, and AF organic QMS that  comply  with  or  that  are  consistent  with  one  of  the  following:  SAE  AS9100,  Quality Management  Systems  -  Requirements  for  Aviation,  Space and Defense  Organizations; SAE AS9110,  Quality  Management  Systems  -  Requirements for  Aviation  Maintenance Organizations; ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems; or SMC-S-003, Quality Space and Launch Requirements Addendum to SAE AS9100C. A2.5.2.  Describe  how  the  program  utilizes  its  deficiency  reporting  system,  required  to  be established  IAW  AFI  63-101/20-101,  to  provide  product  quality  feedback  during  O&S.  NOTE:  For efficiency and interoperability, the deficiency  reporting system  should conform to T.O. 00-35D-54 and utilize the Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS). A2.6.  Program  Protection  Plan.    Describe  how  the  program  quality  assurance  surveillance approach can support counterfeit parts prevention.  AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 15 Attachment 3 MANUFACTURING AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS A3.1.  IAW  paragraph  3.2.1,  the  program  office  addresses  the  following  manufacturing  and quality management requirements in contracts.  Alternatively, the PM can include in the SEP the program’s equivalent approach for meeting the requirements or identify why the requirements do not apply to the program. A3.1.1.  Manufacturing  Management  System.  For  programs  with  a  manufacturing component,  require  contractors  to  have  a  manufacturing  management  system  that  promotes the  timely  development,  production,  modification,  fielding,  and  sustainment  of  affordable products  by  managing  manufacturing  risk  throughout  the  program  life  cycle.    To  meet  this requirement,  ACAT  I  programs  include  SAE  AS6500,  Manufacturing  Management Program, in contracts, with tailoring appropriate to the program's needs.  SAE AS6500 is the preferred approach for programs in other ACATs.   NOTE: Existing contracts at the time of publication of this AFI do not have to be changed to include AS6500. A3.1.2.  Quality  Management  System  (QMS).    Require  contractors  to  have  a  QMS  that  is compliant  with  one  of  the  following  industry  standards:  SAE  AS9100,  ISO  9001,  or SMCS003. A3.1.3.  Manufacturing Readiness Assessments. Require contractor to support assessments of manufacturing readiness. A3.1.4.  Metrics.  Specify  appropriate  manufacturing  and  quality  metrics  to  provide  insight into  program  development,  production  and  sustainment.    Examples  include  defect  rate, workmanship,  organic  damage,  and  incidents  of  nonconformance  to  technical  data.    In  the contract, identify a methodology and required frequency for reporting metrics to the program office or other government representative. A3.1.4.1.  Apply continuous process improvement methodologies to the establishment of contractor  manufacturing  and  quality  assurance  goals,  objectives,  and  measures throughout the lifecycle. A3.1.4.2.  Review  metrics,  statistics,  and  other  artifacts  (e.g.  audit  results,  trend  data, deficiency reporting and resolution, scrap/rework/repair status and cost, sub-tier/supplier management, etc.) and revise metrics, data collection requirements, and other guidance to contractors,  suppliers,  and  depots  when  possible  to  reflect  lessons  learned  and  improve quality throughout the life cycle. A3.1.5.  Critical  Safety  Items  (CSI).  For  aviation,  space,  and  defense  systems,  require  the identification  and  management  of  CSIs  IAW  AFI  20-106  (IP),  Management  of  Aviation Critical Safety Items.  Consider applying industry standard SAE AS9017, Control of Aviation Critical Safety Items. A3.1.6.  First  Article  Testing  and  Approval.  If  the  contract  contains  requirements  for  First Article Testing or First Article Inspection IAW FAR Subpart 9.3 and SAE AS6500, the PM ensures that the requirements and test methods support the demonstration of product quality IAW program’s quality management planning.  When the PM does not require First Article Testing or Inspection, the PM should include a rationale in the TEMP or SEP. AFI63-145  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 A3.1.7.  Subtier/Supplier  Management.    Ensure  the  contract  specifies  which  manufacturing and  quality  management  requirements  the  prime  contractor  is  required  to  impose  on  its subcontracts or supplier contracts. 16  