BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-106 4 MAY 2017 Contracting CONTRACTOR LABOR RELATIONS ACTIVITIES     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/AQCA  Supersedes:  AFI 64-106, 25 March 1994  Certified by: SAF/AQC  (Maj Gen Casey D. Blake) Pages: 12 This  publication  implements  AFPD  64-1,  The  Contracting  System.    It  provides  guidance  and procedures  for  authorized  contractor  labor  relations  activities  on  all  Air  Force  installations  to include overseas commands.  This publication applies to all major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), direct reporting units (DRU), and other Air Force activities, as well as Regular  Air  Force  and  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR)  activities,  officers,  enlisted,  and  civilian employees.  While the principles and intent of this publication pertain to the Air National Guard (ANG) and Active Guard/Reserve (AGR), this publication does not apply to the ANG and AGR since  the  ANG  and  AGR  do  not  receive  contracting  authority  through  the  Air  Force.    This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed above using the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the field  through  the  appropriate  chain  of  command.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Ensure  that  all  records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance with  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management System (AFRIMS). 2 AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  This revision changes the publication’s title from Air Force Industrial Labor Relations Activities to Contractor Labor Relations Activities to be more descriptive of the program.  The document clarifies the roles of Air  Force  Labor  Advisors,  Labor  Relations  Coordinators,  Installation  Commanders,  and Contracting  Officers.    It  addresses  the  reporting  and  coordination  of  labor  disputes,  the continuation  of  contractor  performance  during  a  labor  dispute,  and  the  criteria  for  removal  of government property from contractor facilities during labor disputes. 1.  Roles and Responsibilities. 1.1.  Deputy Assistant Secretary Contracting (DAS(C)).  The DAS(C) develops, approves, publishes, and implements contractor labor relations policy. 1.2.  Installations  and  Sourcing  Division  (SAF/AQCA).  SAF/AQCA  serves  as  the contractor labor relations focal point for the Air Force and manages the program through the Chief Labor Advisor. 1.3.  Chief Labor Advisor (CLA).  The CLA serves as the senior advisor to the DAS(C) for all  contractor  labor  relations  activities.    The  CLA  ensures  the  consistent  implementation  of contractor  labor  relations  policy  throughout  the  Air  Force  by  providing  authoritative guidance to Regional Labor Advisors. 1.4.  Regional  Labor  Advisor  (RLA).  RLAs  manage  contractor  labor  relations  in  their assigned geographic regions.  RLAs ensure the consistent implementation of policy in their respective  regions  by  providing  training  and  advice  directly  to  Commanders  at  all  levels, Contracting Officers, and other Air Force personnel on contractor labor relations to include collective  bargaining  agreements  (CBAs),  labor  standards,  labor  investigations,  labor disputes  between  a  contractor  and  union  (e.g.,  CBA  impasses,  informational  picketing, strikes,  etc.),  and  other  labor  related  matters  regardless  of  whether  specified  in  this publication.    In  addition,  RLAs  fulfill  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  “Agency  Labor Advisors” as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 22, Application of Labor Laws  to  Government  Acquisitions.    As  such,  RLAs  serve  as  the  Air  Force’s  liaisons  to  the Department  of  Labor and union  officials.   See  https://www.wdol.gov/ala.aspx for a listing of RLAs. 1.5.  Labor  Relations  Coordinator  (LRC).  LRCs  are  appointed  in  writing  by  the Installation  Commander  to  serve  as  the  liaison  between  the  Air  Force  installation  and  the RLA.  LRCs monitor CBA expiration dates, notify the RLA of potential labor disputes, and otherwise keep the RLA informed of the state of contractor labor relations at the installation.  The appointment of an LRC does not prevent direct communications between the RLA and Installation Commander or other installation personnel. 1.6.  Installation  Commander.  Installation  Commanders  appoint  an  LRC  and, in coordination with RLAs, work with local union officials to address contractor labor relations issues.  If an installation relies on significant contractor support, the Installation Commander should  develop  an  installation  labor  strike  plan  to  address  contingencies  and  operational changes associated with a contractor strike. AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 3 1.7.  Contracting  Officer.  Contracting  Officers  shall  consider  the  advice  of  RLAs  prior  to making a responsibility determination where a contractor has a questionable record of labor standards  compliance  and  prior  to  incorporating  any  wage  determinations  where  the applicable  contract  labor  standards  are  not  conclusive.    RLAs  should  also  be  consulted  for complex  wage  adjustments,  labor  compliance  investigations  regardless  of  investigating authority  (i.e.,  Air  Force  or  Department  of  Labor),  contractor  labor  disputes,  and  other significant labor related matters. 1.8.  Air  Force  Personnel.  The  collective  bargaining  rights  and  obligations  of  employers and  employees  are  established  by  the  National  Labor  Relations  Act  (NLRA)  of  1935  and other  law.    Accordingly,  all  Air  Force  personnel  shall  remain  impartial  and  refrain  from expressing  any  opinion  with  respect  to  contractor  employee  representation,  collective bargaining,  contractor  labor  disputes,  and  other  labor  related  matters.  (T-1).    Air  Force personnel shall maintain strict neutrality and avoid any action, overt or otherwise, that would create  the  appearance  of  partiality.  (T-1).    When  Air  Force  personnel  become  aware  of  a potential  or  actual  contractor  labor  dispute,  the  matter  should  be  promptly  referred  to  the cognizant contract administration office which will notify the LRC and RLA. 2.  Labor Disputes. 2.1.  Reporting  .    The  cognizant  contract  administration  office  shall  comply  with  the procedures  established  in  FAR  22.101-3,  Department  of  Defense  Federal  Acquisition Regulation  Supplement  (DFARS)  222.101-3,  and  Procedures,  Guidance,  and  Information (PGI)  222.101-3  for  reporting  potential  and  actual  labor  disputes  between  one  of  its contractors and a union that may interfere with contract performance. (T-0).   This reporting assists Installation Commanders, with advice from RLAs, in deciding whether to implement installation  labor  strike  procedures  (e.g.,  designation  of  a  reserved  gate,  notification  of interested parties, informing the base populace of their duty to remain neutral, etc.). 2.2.  Performance of Air Force Contracts During a Dispute.  Contractors are expected to continue performance of contract requirements to the extent possible during a labor dispute.  If the contractor is unable to continue full performance during a labor dispute and the work is for life, health, safety, or other essential services, the Installation Commander or equivalent may  authorize  government  personnel  to  perform  those  contracted  functions.    In  such instances,  government  personnel  need  not  perform  every  contract  function;  however,  any contract functions the Installation Commander directs government personnel to perform must be  segregable  from  other  contract  functions  that  the  contractor’s  nonstriking  workforce continues  to  perform  so  as  to  preclude  any  perceived  or  actual  augmentation  of  the contractor’s nonstriking workforce.  The contract function must be performed exclusively by contractor  employees  or  exclusively  by  government  personnel.    Military  and  civilian personnel  shall  not  supplement  the  contractor’s  non-striking  workforce  under  any circumstances.    Installation  Commanders  and  Contracting  Officers  shall  consult  with  the RLA  and  legal  counsel  prior  to  authorizing  performance  of  any  contracted  functions  by government personnel, or other alternate methods of performance, as a result of a contractor labor dispute.  The Contracting Officer should negotiate a contract modification and obtain a release  of  claims  for  any  work  being  assumed  by  the  government.    If  the  contract modification cannot be accomplished prior to the government’s assumption of work, then the Contracting Officer should issue a stop work order for the portion of work being assumed by the government. 4 AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 2.3.  Picketing and Other Demonstrations. 2.3.1.  Reserved Gates.  The Installation Commander should minimize the impact on the mission  by  prohibiting  picketing  or  other  demonstrations  on  Air  Force  installations  and by limiting these activities to one or more installation gates (i.e., “reserved gates”).  By restricting  employees,  vendors,  and  suppliers  of  the  picketed  contractor  to  the  use  of designated  reserved  gates  and  enforcing  that  restriction,  the  union  is  obligated  to  limit picketing  to  those  same  gates.    The  Installation  Commander  retains  the  authority  to designate  reserved  gates  for  their  installation  regardless  of  the  cognizant  contract administration office’s organization (e.g., Service, Agency, non-government entity, etc.) or  location.    See  Attachment  2  for  a  sample  Designated  Reserved  Gate  Procedures Letter. 2.3.1.1.  Non-exclusive  Reserved  Gates.    Shall  be  used  by  employees,  vendors,  and suppliers of the picketed contractor but may also be used by neutral parties with base access  privileges.    One  or  more  non-exclusive  reserved  gates  are  used  in  most instances. 2.3.1.2.  Exclusive  Reserved  Gates.    Shall  only  be  used  by  employees,  vendors,  and suppliers  of  the  picketed  contractor  and  is  normally  only  used  in  special circumstances (e.g., use of a gate that is not normally open but that is opened during the picket due to safety or other reasons). 2.3.1.3.  Neutral Gates.  Shall not be used by employees, vendors, and suppliers of a contractor  under  a  reserved  gate  restriction.    Neutral  gates  shall  only  be  used  by government  employees,  employees  of  contractors  not  involved  in  the  dispute,  and other  neutral  parties.    A  neutral  gate  permits  personnel  access  to  the  installation without having to cross a picket line. 2.3.1.4.  Subcontractors.    Subcontractors  of  picketed  contractors  are  normally considered neutral parties unless they perform “struck work” previously performed by the  contractor  being  picketed.    If  picketing  of  a  non-neutral  subcontractor  is anticipated or occurs, the subcontractor’s name shall be added to reserved gate signs.  See  paragraph    2.3.3.2.  and  paragraph    2.3.3.3.    Notification  shall  be  sent  to  the subcontractor  and  union  of  the  requirement  for  the  subcontractor’s  employees, vendors, and suppliers to use the reserved gates. 2.3.1.5.  Active and Retired Government Employees Employed in Off-Duty Time By a  Contractor  or  Subcontractor  in  a  Labor  Dispute.    Active  and  retired  government personnel  (military  and  civilian)  that  are  also  an  employee,  vendor,  or  supplier  of  a company subject to reserved gate restrictions at the installation must use the reserved gates  to  access  the  installation.    This  includes  installation  access  required  for  the performance  of  their  official  government  duties;  performance  of  their  duties  as  an employee, vendor, or supplier of a company subject to reserved gate restrictions at the installation;  attending  to  personal  matters  in  off-duty  time  (e.g.,  visiting  the  base hospital, base exchange, base legal office, etc.); or any other reason.  Their status as a contractor  employee,  vendor,  or  supplier  is  determinative  with  respect  to  the requirement  to  use  reserved  gates  regardless  of  the  reason  for  accessing  the installation.  See Section 3 for military and civilian personnel employment limitations associated with employment by a contractor in a labor dispute. AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 5 2.3.2.  Installation  Commander  Responsibilities  During  A  Potential  or  Actual  Labor Dispute. 2.3.2.1.  Consult  with  the  Contracting  Officer  and  RLA  on  a  course  of  action  that minimizes  the  impact  of  picketing  on  the  mission.    Request  and  fund  on-site  RLA assistance, if necessary. 2.3.2.2.  Decide whether to establish reserved gates and designate any reserved gates as exclusive or non-exclusive.  See paragraph 2.3.1. 2.3.2.3.  Notify all military and civilian personnel of the labor dispute, inform them of the  Air  Force  policy  to  maintain  strict  neutrality,  and  instruct  them  to  avoid  any action,  overt  or  otherwise,  that  would  create  the  appearance  of  partiality  to  include expressing  any  opinion  with  respect  to  the  labor  dispute.    See  Attachment  3  for  a sample electronic mail message. 2.3.2.4.  Ensure  notification  of  local  civil  law  enforcement  officials  that  picketing may cause traffic congestion along public access routes adjacent to  the installation’s reserved  gates  and  request  any  assistance  necessary  to  ensure  access  and  public safety. 2.3.2.5.  Review  installation  boundaries  and  jurisdictions.    Ensure  appropriate coordination with local law enforcement. 2.3.2.6.  Ensure Security Forces personnel monitor reserved gates for compliance by all  personnel.    Use  of  neutral  gates  by  contractor  personnel  involved  in  the  labor dispute may result in the union legally picketing all of the installation’s gates.  Ensure the  prompt  notification  of  the  RLA  of  any  violations  of  reserved  gate  restrictions.  Restrict or revoke,  as necessary, installation access  privileges of personnel  violating reserved  gate  restrictions  or  take  other  reasonable  actions  to  ensure  compliance.  Permit the union to post no more than two observers outside neutral gates to monitor compliance,  but  do  not  allow  the  observers  to  engage  in  activity  that  would reasonably  give  the  appearance  to  a  neutral  party  that  the  gate  is  being  picketed.  Union observers may immediately notify Security Forces personnel of any observed non-compliance  with  reserved  gate  procedures  to  the  extent  it  does  not  endanger public  safety  and  is  otherwise  authorized  by  Security  Forces  personnel  on-site.    A union  representative  may  subsequently  notify,  in  writing,  the  contractor  and Contracting Officer of any non-compliance with reserved gate procedures. 2.3.3.  LRC Responsibilities During A Potential or Actual Labor Dispute. 2.3.3.1.  Prepare  reserved  gate  letters  for  the  Installation  Commander’s  signature.  Distribute  the  reserved  gate  letters  to  interested  parties  including  the  contractor  and union  representatives.    When  possible,  the  letters  should  be  distributed  in  sufficient time to reach the contractor and union representatives prior to the commencement of picketing. 2.3.3.2.  Coordinate with the installation’s civil engineer representative to have signs conspicuously  placed  at  reserved  gates.    The  signs  must  be  easily  readable  from  a distance of      75  feet by  vehicle operators and  pedestrians  entering the  installation.  The  signs  shall  contain  the  following  wording:    “NOTICE:    THIS  ENTRANCE 6 AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 MUST BE USED BY EMPLOYEES, VENDORS, AND SUPPLIERS OF [INSERT NAME  OF  CONTRACTOR  AND/OR  SUBCONTRACTOR  INVOLVED  IN  THE LABOR  DISPUTE]  WHO  ENTER  AND  EXIT  THIS  INSTALLATION,  BY ORDER OF THE INSTALLATION COMMANDER.” 2.3.3.3.  Coordinate with the installation’s civil engineer representative to have signs conspicuously  placed  at  all  other  gates  that  read:    “NOTICE:    EMPLOYEES, VENDORS, AND SUPPLIERS OF [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR AND/OR SUBCONTRACTOR  INVOLVED  IN  THE  LABOR  DISPUTE]  MUST  ENTER AND  EXIT  THE  [INSERT  NAME  OF  THE  RESERVED  GATE]  GATE  TO [INSERT NAME OF INSTALLATION] AIR FORCE BASE, BY ORDER OF THE INSTALLATION COMMANDER.” 2.3.3.4.  Maintain a log of the picketing events and activities. 2.3.3.5.  Routinely  update  the  RLA  telephonically  or  by  encrypted  electronic  mail until resolution of the labor dispute. 2.3.4.  Air  Force  military  and  civilian  personnel  must  continue  to  perform  their  normal duties during a labor dispute.  This may require military and civilian personnel to cross a picket  line,  if  necessary,  to  report  to  work  unless  doing  so  could  reasonably  result  in physical  harm  to  their  person  or  vehicle.    In  those  instances,  military  and  civilian personnel should promptly notify their supervisor or other appropriate authority to obtain information on accessing the installation through a neutral gate or to receive instructions on other courses of action. 2.3.5.  If  the  Installation  Commander  concludes  that  the  picketing  is  resulting  in  unsafe conditions for military, civilian, or other personnel, the Installation Commander shall take any immediate actions necessary to address the safety concerns and then promptly notify the RLA of the actions taken.  The RLA may negotiate with the interested parties to limit the number of picketers, establish picketing standards to the extent necessary to address safety concerns, or take any other reasonable actions under the circumstances to address the Installation Commander’s concerns. 2.4.  Removal of Material from Manufacturing Plants or Facilities. 2.4.1.  Requests to remove items from a contractor’s facilities affected by work stoppage shall  be  limited,  to  the  maximum  extent  practicable,  to  instances  that  meet  the  criteria specified in paragraphs 2.1.4.1. through 2.4.1.3. (T-0). 2.4.1.1.  The items are urgent and critical to the needs of the program; 2.4.1.2.  Waiting  for  resolution  of  the  labor  dispute  would  cause  harm  to  the  Air Force; 2.4.1.3.  Removal of the items will not adversely affect labor negotiations. 2.4.2.  All  requests  to  remove  items  from  a  contractor’s  facilities  affected  by  work stoppage shall be processed in accordance with DFARS 222.101-4. (T-0). 2.5.  Disputes at Overseas Commands. 2.5.1.  Contractor  labor  relations  activities,  including  labor  disputes,  at  overseas commands  are  normally  governed  by  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  host  country.  AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 7 However, overseas commands should comply with this instruction to the extent possible.  Contracting  activities  supporting  overseas  commands  should  refer  labor  relations questions to their respective RLA. 2.5.2.  Due  to  time  differences,  contracting  activities  and  LRCs  supporting  overseas commands  should  report  potential  or  actual  labor  disputes  that  may  impact  Air  Force installations  or  programs  to  the  RLA  by  use  of  encrypted  electronic  mail.    LRCs  will provide the RLA routine updates until resolution of the labor dispute. 3.  Employment of Off-Duty Government Personnel. 3.1.  Limitations. 3.1.1.  The Air Force does not permit off-duty employment of military personnel in jobs temporarily  vacated  by  a  contractor’s  striking  employees.    However,  off-duty  military personnel  employed before their employer became involved in  a labor dispute need not terminate  employment  solely  because  of  the  dispute.    Military  personnel  are  advised  to contact  their  local  ethics  counselor  at  their  servicing  legal  office  to  ensure  outside employment  will  not  violate  criminal  conflict  of  interest  rules,  Air  Force  neutrality,  or other limitations (which may include MAJCOM or unit specific limitations). 3.1.2.  Air  Force  civilian  employees  must  comply  with  the  requirements  of  5  C.F.R. 3601.107  and  AFI  36-703,  Civilian  Conduct  and  Responsibility,  regarding  outside employment. (T-0).  Civilian personnel are advised to contact their local ethics counselor at  their  servicing  legal  office  to  ensure  outside  employment  will  not  violate  criminal conflict  of  interest  rules,  Air  Force  neutrality,  or  other  limitations  (which  may  include MAJCOM or unit specific limitations). 4.  Union Activity on Air Force Installations. 4.1.  Limitations. 4.1.1.  Installation  Commanders  shall  not  permit  contractor  union  activity  on  Air  Force owned  or  controlled  property  except  as  otherwise  authorized  in  this  instruction.  (T-1).  NOTE:    For  unions  representing  federal  employees,  refer  to  AFI  36-701,  Labor Management Relations. 4.1.2.  Union representatives may conduct legitimate union business with their members who are employed by on-base contractors or meet with Air Force or contractor officials regarding union business subject to the limitations of this instruction. 4.1.3.  Unions  may  hold  bargaining  unit  certification  or  decertification  elections  on  Air Force installations under the supervision of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).  Installation Commanders must provide a suitable place for such elections upon request by the NLRB and after coordination with the installation’s RLA. 4.1.4.  Unions  may  not  conduct  internal  elections  or  fundraisers  on  Air  Force  owned  or controlled property. 4.2.  Installation Access. 4.2.1.  Installation access should be granted for either union representational duties or for union organizing purposes. 8 AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 4.2.2.  The  contractor  is  responsible  for  requesting  installation  access  for  union representatives to  conduct  representational duties.  The contractor must comply with  all installation  access  procedures  when  arranging for  union representatives  representing  employees  under  the  contractor’s  contract  or  subcontract  at any tier. installation  access 4.2.2.1.  Union representatives shall comply with all installation safety requirements. 4.2.2.2.  Union  representatives  shall  not  be  granted  access  to  secure  or  controlled areas. 4.2.2.3.  Union  representatives  shall  not  interfere  with  installation  operations  to include the contractor’s activities. 4.2.2.4.  Union  representatives  shall  not  use  installation  access  for  any  reason  other than for which installation access was expressly granted.  This includes meeting with any  other  contractors’  employees  that  were  not  stated  in  the  installation  access request. 4.2.2.5.  Union  representatives  shall  not  conduct  meetings,  collect  dues,  or  make speeches. 4.2.3.  The LRC is responsible for requesting installation access for union representatives for  organizing  purposes.    Requests  should  be  in  writing  and  include  the  name  of  the contractor’s  employees  to  be  visited  along  with  the  proposed  date,  time,  and  location.  The LRC shall make arrangements for installation access only after coordinating with the RLA. 4.2.3.1.  Union  representatives  shall  comply  with  the  requirements  in  paragraphs  4.2.2.1. through  4.2.2.5. 4.2.3.2.  Union representatives may only visit with, and distribute union literature to, contractor employees not represented by the union.  The visits must occur outside the contractor’s work areas and during the employees’ non-working hours (e.g., prior to work, scheduled breaks, after work, etc.). 4.2.4.  A  union’s  failure  to  comply  with  any  of  these  requirements  may  result  in revocation of installation access privileges.  DARLENE J. COSTELLO Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition & Logistics) AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations, 6 April 2017 AFI 36-703, Civilian Conduct and Responsibility, 18 February 2014 AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 December 2006 Code of Federal Regulations (5 C.F.R. 3601.107) Federal Acquisition Regulation and Supplements (Part 22) National Labor Relations Act of 1935 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AGR—Active Guard/Reserve ANG—Air National Guard CBA—Collective Bargaining Agreement CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CLA—Chief Labor Advisor DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation FOA—Field Operating Agency 10 AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 LRC—Labor Relations Coordinator MAJCOM—Major Command NLRA—National Labor Relations Act of 1935 NLRB—National Labor Relations Board OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PGI—Procedures, Guidance, and Information RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RLA—Regional Labor Advisor Terms Contractor—A business entity performing an appropriated fund contract, non-appropriated fund contract, or other type of contract or agreement with the government (e.g., schools, banks, credit unions,  etc.)  at  the  prime  or  subcontract  (all  tiers)  level.    It  does  not  include  federal  civilian personnel  represented  by  an  exclusively  recognized  union  which  are  governed  by  AFI  36-701, Labor Management Relations. Reserved  Gate(s)—One  or  more  installation  gates  designated  by  the  Installation  Commander that limits picketing, demonstrations, and other labor related activities to the designated gate(s).  A reserved gate may be designated as exclusive or non-exclusive. Exclusive  Reserved  Gate—A  reserved  gate  that  has  been  designated  for  the  sole  use  by employees, vendors, and suppliers of the picketed contractor. Neutral Gate—A gate that has not been designated for use by employees, vendors, and suppliers of  the  picketed  contractor  and  that  may  only  be  used  by  government  employees,  employees  of contractors not involved in the dispute, and other neutral parties. Non-exclusive Reserved Gate—A reserved gate that has been designated for use by employees, vendors, and suppliers of the picketed contractor but may also be used by neutral parties.  AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 11 SAMPLE DESIGNATED RESERVED GATE PROCEDURES LETTER Attachment 2 FROM:  INSTALLATION COMMANDER TO:  (One copy goes to the contractor and/or subcontractor and one to the picketing union) SUBJECT:  Reserved Gate Procedures in the Event of Picketing      I have been advised that a labor dispute may result in picketing of (INSERT CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR NAME) during performance of contract (INSERT CONTRACT NUMBER) for (INSERT BRIEF CONTRACT DESCRIPTION) at (INSERT INSTALLATION NAME).      The Air Force maintains strict neutrality in contractor labor disputes.  Consistent with this policy, I must make every effort to ensure the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission is not adversely affected by your dispute.      Accordingly, observe the following procedures for the duration of the dispute or until otherwise revoked by official action. a.Do not picket within the confines of the installation. b.All employees, vendors, and suppliers of (INSERT CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR NAME) will enter and exit the installation only through the following reserved gate(s):  (INSERT NAME OF RESERVED GATE(S)). c.Confine demonstrations, including picketing, to the (INSERT NAME OF RESERVED GATE(S)).      The Air Force will post appropriate signs identifying the reserved gate(s) at all entrances to the installation.  Direct any questions or concerns regarding these procedures to (INSERT INSTALLATION COMMANDER’S DESIGNATED POINT OF CONTACT) at (INSERT COMMERCIAL PHONE NUMBER).     INSTALLATION COMMANDER’S SIGNATURE BLOCK  12 AFI64-106  4 MAY 2017 Attachment 3 SAMPLE ELECTRONIC MAIL MESSAGE TO MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON AIR FORCE NEUTRALITY POLICY Attention all military and civilian personnel,   The (INSERT UNIT NAME) has become aware that a labor dispute may take place between (INSERT CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR NAME) and (INSERT UNION NAME).  For the duration of the dispute, pickets may be established at one or more entrances to the installation.  Personnel must follow any special traffic directions given by Security Forces personnel or local law enforcement agencies.   Under no circumstances will Air Force military or civilian personnel initiate, or participate in, actions in support of or against either of the aforementioned parties to the dispute.  All personnel are reminded to remain strictly neutral and avoid any action, overt or otherwise, that would create the appearance of partiality and to refrain from expressing any position on the merits of the dispute.     INSTALLATION COMMANDER’S SIGNATURE BLOCK  