BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-401 16 FEBRUARY 2016 Financial Management RELATIONS WITH THE GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (GAO)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication    OPR:  SAF/FMFC  Supersedes:  AFI65-401, 23 March 1994  Certified by: SAF/FMF  (Mr Thomas Murphy) Pages: 16  This  instruction  implements  AFPD  65-4,  Followup  on  Internal  Air  Force  Audit  Reports  and Liaison  With  External  Audit  Organizations,  September  7,  1993;  DoD  Instruction  7650.01, Government  Accountability  Office  (GAO)  and  Comptroller  General  Requests  for  Access  to Records,  January  27,  2009  with  Change  1  dated  August  24,  2011;  DoD  Instruction  7650.02, General Accounting Office Reviews and Reports, November 20, 2006; DoD Instruction 7650.03, Followup on Government Accountability Office (GAO), Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DOD), and Internal Audit Reports, December 18, 2014; and the standardized DoD and GAO administrative procedures developed jointly by the two agencies. Air Force and DoD Inspector  General  (IG)  relationship  regarding  DoD  IG  audits  is  contained  in  AFI  65-402, Relations With the Office of the Assistant Inspectors General for Auditing and Audit Followup, Department  of  Defense.    It  provides  guidance  and  procedures  on  interacting  with  Government Accountability Office (GAO) representatives engaged in carrying out statutory responsibilities of the  Comptroller  General.    It  applies  to  Air  Force  personnel  at  all  levels  who  participate  in Government  Accountability  Office  reviews,  including  the  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air  National Guard.    This  AFI  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  supplements  that  implement  this instruction  must  be  routed  to  SAF/FMF  Financial  Operations  for  coordination  prior  to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for Change  of  Publication,  route  AF  Forms  847.      The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests 2 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Ensure  that  all  records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363 Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management System (AFRIMS).   SUMMARY OF CHANGES The publication has been revised.  This rewrite of AFI 65-401 includes the role of the Air Force Installation Mission Support Center and includes revised office symbols.  Additional guidance is provided  regarding  Air  Force  Personnel  Responsibilities,  the  handling  of  access  requests  for records of a DoD component other than the DoD component receiving the request, records of a non-DoD  entity,  records  containing  personal  information,  operational  plans  and  future  military operations, and foreign intelligence and counter intelligence information.  The title has changed to: Relations with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 3 CHAPTER 1 GAO BACKGROUND AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY 1.1.  GAO Functions.  The Congress created GAO to assist in providing legislative control and oversight of the financial transactions and program implementation of the Federal Government.  The GAO provides special assistance to the Congress in response to requests from congressional committees,  subcommittees  and  Members  of  the  Congress.    Other  GAO  audit  functions  are based on existing statutes and self-initiated audits. 1.2.  Statutory Authority.  The Budget and Accounting Act of 1921 established GAO as part of the legislative branch of the Federal Government.  The Budget, Accounting, and Procedures Act of  1950,  the  Legislative  Reorganization  Act  of  1970,  the  Congressional  Budget  and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, the General Accounting Office Act of 1974, and the General Accounting  Office  Act  of  1980  expanded  and  redefined  GAO's  functions.    With  certain exceptions,  these  acts  and  other  provisions  of  the  law  authorize  the  Comptroller  General  to examine or review the management, programs, activities, and financial operations of the Federal Government. 4 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 CHAPTER 2 AIR FORCE PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  Air  Force  and  GAO  Relationships.  The  Air  Force  must  fully  cooperate  with  GAO representatives  in  carrying  out  the  statutory  audit  responsibility  of  the  Comptroller  General. Commanders  must  provide  facilities,  temporary  workspace,  and  access  to  relevant  information and records. (T-1). 2.2.  Air Force Personnel Responsibilities.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management  and  Comptroller  (SAF/FM)  is  responsible  for  Air  Force  liaison  with  the  GAO.  Deputy Assistant Secretary, Financial Operations (SAF/FMF) is the Air Force focal point for all contacts with the GAO.  The Air Force Audit Liaison (SAF/FMFC) must: 2.2.1.  Manage Air Force and GAO relations to achieve a cooperative, businesslike rapport. 2.2.2.  Receive  and  issue  GAO  notices  of  new  surveys,  reviews,  investigations,  visits,  and requests for GAO access to information to Air Force activities. 2.2.3.  Monitor and coordinate GAO surveys, reviews, investigative and access matters with the DoD IG Office of GAO Surveys and Reviews. 2.2.4.  Coordinate  appointments  of  primary  and  alternate  points  of  contact  for  each engagement, updating the DoDIG GAO Affairs Division web site GAO Liaison Analyst Data Information  System  (GLADIS)  with  the  appropriate  POC  information.  POC  information  is received  from  Air  Staff  and  AFIMSC.    Upon  notification  of  MAJCOM  and/or  installation visits, SAF/FMFC provides the affected Air Force Inspection Gatekeeper the announcement and identifies the POC’s appointed for scheduling purposes.    2.2.5.  Attend all entrance and exit conferences for engagements which Air Force has equity.  For  those  in  which  the  Air  Force  is  the  DOD  Primary  Action  Office,  ensures  the  PAO  is present and understands their requirements.  2.2.6.  Receive,  assign  action,  and  ensure  prompt  processing  of  all  draft  and  final  GAO reports or related informational documents issued in lieu of draft reports. 2.2.7.  Monitor  and  evaluate  Air  Force  replies  to  those  reports  and  documents  to  ensure replies are responsive. 2.3.  HQ  USAF/SAF  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff  Office  Responsibilities.  Each  Secretariat  or Air Staff office must establish an audit focal point to process review notices and reports. Audit focal points must: 2.3.1.  Assign offices of primary responsibility (OPR) and offices of collateral responsibility (OCR) based on functional areas of responsibility. 2.3.2.  Ensure OPRs notify SAF/FMFC of the name, grade, office symbol, room number, and telephone extension of the primary and alternate points of contact within 3 working days. 2.3.3.  Provide  assistance  to  the  OPR  in  resolving  problems  that  may  result  from  GAO contacts or visits. 2.3.4.  Monitor  suspense  dates  and  take  aggressive  action  to  ensure  that  replies  to  GAO reports are processed timely. AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 5 2.4.  Secretariat/Air Staff Central Points of Contact Responsibilities.  Designated Air    Force points of contact (POC) must: 2.4.1.  Provide their name, organization symbol, and telephone number to SAF/FMFC.  2.4.2.  Apprise other Air Force elements that may have an interest in the audit. 2.4.3.  Attend  audit  in-briefings  and  other  audit  related  meetings  with  OSD  and  GAO officials and monitor ongoing audit activities. 2.4.4.  Act on audit requests for information and resolve record denial problems. 2.4.5.  Obtain input from involved Air Force elements and provide official comments to OSD on GAO draft and final reports. 2.5.  AirForce  Installation  Mission  Support  Center  (AFIMSC),  Field  Operating  Agencies (FOA),  and  Direct  Reporting  Units  (DRU).  AFIMSC,  FOA  and  DRU  Audit  Focal  Points receive  GAO  announcements  which  involve  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs)  Installations, FOAs,  or  DRUs  and  will  request  POC  appointments  providing  the  POC  information  to SAF/FMFC.  (T-1).    MAJCOM,  FOA  and/or  DRU  Commanders  will  designate  a  focal  point within their headquarters to manage matters involving GAO.  The audit focal point must: 2.5.1.  Keep the commander and staff informed of GAO matters. 2.5.2.  Exercise command surveillance over GAO visits and exit interviews. 2.5.3.  Receive and process GAO reports.2.5.4.Assist functional OPRs in resolving problems that may arise concerning GAO visits, requests for information, Air Staff requests for inputs to report responses, and other such related issues. 2.5.4.  Submit GAO visit reports containing significant matters to various Secretariat or Air Staff functional OPRs. 6 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 CHAPTER 3 PROCEDURES TO PROCESS, MONITOR, AND MANAGE GAO SURVEYS AND REVIEWS 3.1.  Central Liaison and GAO Notification Letters: 3.1.1.  The  GAO  must  issue  an  official  announcement  letter  when  initiating  new  survey  or review  work.    Air  Force  personnel  should  ensure  the  GAO  has  properly  announced  their work before meeting with them or providing them with information. 3.1.2.  The  GAO  sends  all  audit  notifications  to  the  DoD  IG  Office  of  GAO  Surveys  and Reviews.  A DoD IG  action officer then identifies the OSD primary action office (PAO) and PAO POC and issues a tasking memorandum assigning responsibility for the GAO survey or review.    The  tasking  memorandum  also  identifies  collateral  action  offices  (CAO)  that  are involved. 3.1.3.  The  DoD  IG  sends  the  GAO  announcement  and  their  tasking  memorandum  to SAF/FMFC who identifies the appropriate Air Force Secretariat or Air Staff OPR and sends copies  of  the  announcement  letter  along  with  an  Air  Force  assignment  notice.    Copies  are also sent to other interested Air Force organizations. 3.1.4.  The Secretariat or Air Staff OPR audit focal point designates an individual as the Air Force  POC.    This  individual  must  work  closely  with  the  OSD  PAO  and  DoD  IG  action officers to inform Air Force and DoD management of the status of the review. 3.2.  GAO Headquarters-Level Entrance, Interim Status, and Exit Meetings: 3.2.1.  The  DoD  IG  normally  requests  the  GAO  to  hold  a  joint  headquarters-level  entrance meeting  to  provide  key  Defense  officials  an  opportunity  to  become  familiar  with  the objectives of the review. 3.2.2.  During the course of the review, DoD officials may request the GAO to hold periodic status  briefings.    These  meetings  provide  DoD  officials  an  opportunity  to  discuss  the accuracy and completeness of GAO work results and to avoid surprises. 3.2.3.  Upon  completion  of  field  work,  GAO  personnel  generally  hold  an  exit  conference with  the commander to  discuss the results of their review.  Unless  they  are precluded from discussing  their  findings,  such  as  is  the  case  with  some  congressional  reviews,  Air  Force management should insist on being thoroughly out-briefed. 3.3.  GAO Visits to Air Force Installations: 3.3.1.  The  GAO  usually  provides  a  10-calendar  day  advance  notice  to  commanders  before visiting an Air Force installation.  The notice transmits the security clearance of each GAO visitor and is sent directly to the place of visit with an informational copy to SAF/FMFC.  In circumstances of limited work or unusual urgency, such as congressional inquiry, the notice may be given by telephone.  Written confirmation is provided thereafter. 3.3.2.  GAO  personnel  have  special  identification  cards.    Each  card  is  serially  numbered, with the photograph and signature of the authorized holder.  Air Force officials should ask to see those cards to identify GAO personnel. AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 7 3.3.3.  Before beginning an assignment, GAO personnel must meet with the commander or a designated representative to discuss the nature of their visit. 3.4.  Written Comments and Responses to the GAO During Surveys or Reviews.  Air Force functional  elements  will  not  provide  the  GAO  with  written  comments  or  responses  to  reports unless it has been coordinated with the DoD IG Office of GAO Survey and Reviews. 3.5.  Reports of GAO Visits (RCS:  SAF-FMF(AR)9438, GAO Visit Report): 3.5.1.  At  the  installation  level,  the  commander  or  designee  will  submit  a  briefing  report  to the MAJCOM following meetings where significant matters or sensitive issues are discussed. (T-2). 3.5.2.  At the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU level, the audit focal point should send briefing  reports to  the  Secretariat  or  Air  Staff  functional  OPR  when  significant  problems  or  developments surface. 3.5.3.  The AFIMSC, FOA or DRU Audit Focal Points ensure the GAO Visit report includes the following items: (T-1) 3.5.3.1.  The names of principal GAO personnel involved, copies of any informal written products  provided,  the  GAO  work  assignment  code,  and  names  of  principal  Air  Force personnel contacted. 3.5.3.2.  A  summary  of  discussions  held,  deficiencies  disclosed,  conclusions  drawn, corrective  actions  taken  or  recommended,  and  other  significant  information  such  as unusual GAO requests. 3.5.3.3.  GAO’s plans to brief congressional staff, testify at congressional hearings, or to issue a report. 3.5.4.  This  report  is  designated  emergence  status  code  C-3.    Continue  reporting  during emergency conditions, precedence delayed.  Submit data requirements as prescribed, but they may  be  delayed  to  allow  the  submission  of  higher  precedence  reports.    Submit  by  non-electronic means, if possible. 8 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 CHAPTER 4 CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, ACCESS, SPECIAL CASES 4.1.  Classified  Information.  Air  Force  personnel  must  release  DOD  classified  information  to properly  cleared  GAO  representatives.  (T-1).    Air  Force  personnel  must  obtain  receipts  for Secret documents. (T-1).  Air Force personnel must process Top Secret documents through the controlling  Air  Force  Top  Secret  Control  Office  to  the  Top  Secret  Control  Office  of  the  GAO division concerned. (T-1). 4.2.  Access to Information.  Under Title 31, United States Code, Section 716(a), the GAO has broad access rights.  DoD Instruction 7650.01 and DoD Instruction 7650.2 set forth the general DoD  policy  and  procedures  regarding  GAO  access  to  records.    Air  Force  personnel  are responsible for providing accurate and complete information to the GAO. 4.2.1.  The  individual  with  the  requested  information  normally  grants  access  without reference to  a higher  authority.   Oral  requests are honored provided the  work was properly announced.  However, the GAO may be asked to submit a specific written request to clarify the nature of the information desired. 4.2.2.  Air  Force  personnel  must  process  requests  for  information  in  a  prompt  manner  that ensures  the  suspense  is  met.  (T-1).    There  are  no  provisions  to  deny  GAO  access  to  Air Force-controlled  information  except  when  approval  is  obtained  from  the  Office  of Management and Budget (OMB). 4.2.3.  Information in Air Force hands, originated by non-Air Force organizations or prepared at  the  specific  request  of  OSD  to  become  a  part  of  an  OSD-controlled  document,  is  not considered Air Force-controlled information.  However, the Air Force component having the information should contact the originator to clear release.  Avoid unnecessary referrals. 4.2.3.1.  When an access request involves a record of a non-DoD entity, the responsibility for  determining  the  release  of  that  record  rests  with  the  non-DoD  entity.    If  a  request involves such a record, the GAO should be advised of this fact and asked to request the record directly from the non-DoD entity.  Alternatively, such a record may be released by a DoD Component with the consent of the originating entity. 4.2.3.2.  When  an  access  request  is  submitted  to  one  DoD  Component  but  involves  a record  of  another  DoD  Component,  the  request  should  immediately  be  referred  to  that Component for either a direct response to the GAO or for approval of the release of the record.  Air Force personnel shall advise the GAO of such referrals. (T-1).  If a request involves a Future Years Defense Program or Program Budget Decisions, the GAO should be requested to seek the information  directly  from  the OUSD(C).   If  a request  involves technical  development  plans,  the  GAO  should  be  referred  directly  to  the  originating office.  If a request is for a record concerning operation plans or support plans involving joint  Service  participation,  the  GAO  should  be  referred  directly  to  the  Chairman  of  the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 4.2.4.  Information considered "internal workpapers," or which does not reflect an official Air Force  position,  is  not  denied  to  the  GAO.  However,  custodians  must  include  cautionary AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 9 explanations when providing this information. (T-1).  For example, clearly mark documents as "draft, workpapers, unofficial, predecisional etc." 4.2.5.  When requested information is unavailable or cannot be provided, it is often possible to substitute other documents, briefings, visual access without copies, or similar data.  This substitution should only be done with GAO concurrence. 4.2.6.  Usually  GAO  representatives  work  with  Air  Force  data  where  it  is  kept  and  make notes, extracts, or copies as required.  Reproduced copies of documents, papers, and records may be furnished to the GAO. 4.2.7.  GAO  normally  requests  information  that  already  exists.    Negotiate  requests  for developing  special  information,  extracts,  summaries,  or  analysis  of  data  requiring considerable resources to prepare.  Requests which are not resolved locally are referred to the Secretariat or Air Staff OPR for resolution. 4.3.  Resolving Record Access Problems: 4.3.1.  Information  is  released  to  the  GAO  following  the  guidance  contained  in  this document.    If  difficulties  arise,  installation  commanders  should  try  to  resolve  the  problems by consulting with  higher commands, and, if necessary, with  their Secretariat  and Air Staff functional  counterparts  without  taking  formal  referral  action.    Under  no  circumstances  will an  individual,  commander,  or  unit  head  inform  a  GAO  representative  that  the  request  is denied  while  the  referral  or  staffing  is  in  process.  (T-1).    Instead,  the  GAO  representative should be informed that the request has been referred for appropriate action. 4.3.2.  Where  the  MAJCOM  involvement  does  not  result  in  release  of  information  to  the GAO,  the  request  and  MAJCOM  recommendation  and  rationale  will  be  sent  to  the Secretariat  or Air Staff functional  counterpart for staffing  with  a copy to  SAF/FMFC.  The MAJCOM must ensure there is no unnecessary delay in this review and referral process. 4.3.3.  If  an  access  request  involves  several  different  records,  some  of  which  are  releasable and some of which may be exempt, prompt action needs to be taken to provide access to the releasable documents and to resolve the issues related to records that may be exempt.  If the Air  Force  ultimately  decides  some  or  all  of  the  requested  records  may  not  be  released,  the Secretariat or Air Staff OPR must notify the DoD IG Office of GAO Surveys and Reviews in writing  within  15  days  as  to  which  specific  legal  or  policy  basis  the  Air  Force  is  using  to deny GAO access.  This is necessary in case the GAO Comptroller General later decides to send a formal demand letter to the Secretary of Air Force or Secretary of Defense. 4.3.4.  All of the above efforts are "informal" attempts to resolve access issues.  If the matter remains unresolved, the GAO Comptroller General may issue a formal demand letter to the Secretary  of  Air  Force  or  the  Secretary  of  Defense  demanding  access  to  the  requested information.  By law, the DoD has 20 days to respond to the GAO demand letter. 4.3.5.  Secretariat/Air  Staff  OPRs  shall  keep  detailed  records  on  all  actions  taken  about denials of exempt records. 4.4.  Special Cases.  While the above paragraphs provide general guidance for the release of Air Force controlled data, the following are instructions for release of "special category" information to the GAO. 10 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 4.4.1.  The  Air  Force  Audit  Agency  will  make  internal  audit  reports  and  workpapers available to the GAO. (T-1).  Requests for Air Force reports of audits and workpapers should be  referred  to  AFAA/DOO.    Requests  for  installation  reports  and  workpapers  should  be directed to the chief of the area audit office. 4.4.2.  Air  Force  Inspector  General  (SAF/IG)  inspection  reports  will  be  made  available  for GAO  review.    However,  visual  access  without  physical  release  is  the  primary  method  of releasing  this  information.    If  physical  release  is  desired,  the  GAO  director  or  higher authority must make a written request to the SAF/IG. 4.4.3.  Air  Force  personnel  must  obtain  SAF/IG  approval  to  release  of  Air  Force  Inspector General Reports of Administrative Inquiry and Investigations. (T-1). 4.4.4.  Air Force personnel must obtain HQ USAF/JA approval to release Separate Accident Investigations of Aircraft and Missile Accidents. (T-1). 4.4.5.  Under  the  provisions  of  section  716(e)  (2)  of  Reference  (e),  any  record  described  in section 552(b) (6) of title 5, United States Code (Reference (g) consisting of personnel  and medical  files,  the  disclosure  of  which  would  constitute  a  clearly  unwarranted  invasion  of personal  privacy,  must  be  kept  by  the  Comptroller  General  in  a  way  that  prevents unwarranted  invasions  of  personal  privacy.    Accordingly,  any  time  that  such  a  record  is furnished to a GAO representative or to the Comptroller General, Air Force personnel shall ensure the record is suitably marked to indicate that it is a personnel or medical record that is subject to the protection provisions of section 716(e)(2) of Reference (e). (T-1). 4.4.5.1.  Security  police  and  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  reports  may  be released when approved by the heads of those organizations. 4.4.6.  Outyear  Program  and  Budget  Planning  information  may  be  released  after  release  of the  President's  budget.    This  includes  all  information  contained  in  budget  documents  and support justification books.   Note that program  objective memorandum  (POM) and budget estimate submission (BES) data are OSD (Program Analysis and Evaluation) controlled and may only be released at that level. 4.4.7.  Requests  for  Future  Year  Defense  Plan  information  including  outyear  data  on  non-SAR  programs  are  referred  to  the  OSD  Comptroller.    Other  requests  for  outyear  planning estimates, including initial-mission areas estimates not specifically associated with POM and BES  submittals  may  be  released.    Where  appropriate,  attach  a  cover  letter  indicating  the information  is  subject  to  change  and    does  not  necessarily  constitute  an  official  Air  Force position. 4.4.8.  Air  Force  personnel  must  obtain  written  consent  from  the  originating  agency  to release any reports and documents of non-Air Force agencies. (T-1).  Usually, GAO obtains those documents from the originator. 4.4.9.  Air  Force  personnel  must  obtain  approval  of  the  individual  that  directed  the preparation  of  the  report  to  release  any  management-type  studies  and  surveys.  (T-1).  Management-type  studies  and  surveys  are  normally  accompanied  by  a  statement summarizing the Air Force position on the recommendations in the report. 4.4.10.  Developmental  and  operational  test  and  evaluation  reports  will  be  released  by  the final  reviewing  authority  responsible  for  the  report.  (T-1).    Interim  test  reports  may  be AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 11 released to the GAO with the understanding they are advanced or preliminary in nature and may be subject to change. 4.4.11.  Air  Force  personnel  must  obtain  qualifying  information  that  reflects  the  Air  Force position  to  release  any  Air  Force  headquarters  validated  requirement  documents  such  as operational  requirements  document,  mission  needs  statement,  and  mission  element  needs statement.  (T-1).    Unrelated  documents  may  also  be  released  before  validation  with  the understanding they may not represent the Air Force position or consensus. 4.4.12.  GAO  requests  for  information  about  operational  planning  or  conduct  of  military operations,  war  plans,  force  deployments,  and  intelligence  collection  and  analysis  are referred to the proper unified or specified command. 4.4.13.  The  Department  limits  access  to  operational  plans  and  information  about  potential future military operations, such as execution orders, to individuals having a mission-critical role in the production, review, or execution of those plans or operations.  The GAO typically does not have such a mission-critical role and is  normally not  granted access to operational plans or to information about potential future military operations.  Exceptions to this policy should be requested through the Joint Staff and approved by the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.  Requests for information relating to Air Force operations plans or support plans are sent to the Deputy Chief of Staff Plans and Operations (HQ USAF/A3) who has release authority. 4.4.14.  Although the Comptroller General may be prevented from compelling access to this information,  foreign  intelligence  and  counter  intelligence  information  should  not  be  denied categorically.    Such  information  may  be  furnished  to  GAO  representatives  having  a legitimate  need  to  know.    Therefore,  denials  of  access  to  such  information  require  careful consideration  and  legitimate  support.    The  Air  Force  will  exercise  caution  in  releasing communications or information of foreign origin until national release approval is secured. 4.4.15.  Specific  guidelines  for  release  of  data  that  may  be  source  selection  sensitive  is contained  in  Air  Force  Federal  Acquisition  Supplement,  Appendix  AA,  Formal  Source Selection For Major Acquisition Programs. 12 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 CHAPTER 5 GAO REPORTS AND FOLLOWUP 5.1.  General: 5.1.1.  A GAO survey or review usually results in the issuance of a report.  When reports are submitted  for  comment,  they  are  addressed  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  Deputy  Assistant Inspector General for GAO Report Analysis, (DoD IG).  That office, in turn, determines the PAO and appropriate CAOs. The PAO (with rare exception) is a component of the Office of the Secretary of Defense. 5.2.  Draft Report: 5.2.1.  Draft reports represent tentative findings and recommendations. They are provided to the DoD for review and comment.  Care is taken by all AF management officials to prevent premature or unauthorized release, disclosure, or use. 5.2.2.  The DoD  IG prepares  a summary of the findings and  recommendations contained in the report and tasks the PAO to prepare a DoD response. 5.2.3.  The  tasking  memorandum  provides  detailed  instruction  and  scheduled  dates  for completing the various tasks associated with processing of the draft report.  DoD Instruction 7650.2 specifically requires the PAO to review the draft report, obtain input from the CAOs, and prepare a proposed response on behalf of the Secretary for OSD level coordination and clearance prior to release to the GAO. 5.2.4.  By statute, the DoD has up to 30 days to comment on a GAO draft report assuming it is  submitted for comment.   On occasion,  a shorter comment period is necessary, usually to meet a congressional imposed deadline.  In addition to preparing written comments, the DoD most  always  meets  with  the  GAO  to  present  its  official  comments  orally.    The  DoD  IG  tasking memorandum establishes appropriate due dates for these events. 5.2.5.  AFIMSC,  DRU,  or  FOA  input  must  be  provided  to  the  HQ  USAF  OPR  point  of contact for inclusion in the overall Air Force response when appropriate. (T-1). 5.3.  Security  Reviews.  GAO sometimes requests the DoD to  perform a  security classification review of draft reports.  Requests are processed through the DoD IG and SAF/FMFC and result in the tasking of a Secretariat or Air Staff OPR to provide preliminary paragraph markings and recommended downgrading instructions. The OPR provides SAF/PAS an annotated copy of the report for their use. 5.4.  GAO  Final  Reports.  The  final  report  may  be  a  bound  document  or  a  letter  report  to  the Congress, congressional committee, Member of Congress, or government official.  Final reports addressed to DoD organizations must be responded to by an OSD Assistant Secretary or the head of a DoD agency.  As in the case of draft report processing procedures, the DoD IG will issue a tasking  memorandum  to  the  PAO  and  various  CAOs  requesting  that  formal  comments  be prepared  in  response  to  the  GAO  final  report.    In  cases  where  final  reports  do  not  include recommendations  to  the  Department  of  Defense,  comments  may  not  be  required.    Unless otherwise stated, 60 days are allotted for commenting on GAO final reports.  A copy of the DoD AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 13 response  is  also  sent  to  the  House  and  Senate  Committees  on  Appropriations,  Government Operations, other select committees and OMB. 5.5.  Other  GAO-Generated  Documents.  Statements  of  fact,  briefing  papers,  and  testimony which GAO provides before or instead of draft reports are generally of an informational nature.  Any responses to those documents are handled directly between appointed POC’s and GAO.   5.6.  Replies to GAO Reports.  GAO reports concerning the Air Force and the DoD may have a significant impact on the views of the general public and the Congress.  Air Force management officials must: 5.6.1.  Take prompt and positive action on all GAO reports. 5.6.2.  Objectively  evaluate  the  report  and  be  responsive  to  the  GAO  findings,  conclusions, and recommendations. (T-1). 5.6.3.  Indicate  agreement  or  disagreement  with  GAO recommendations, including the reason for any disagreements. (T-1). findings,  conclusions,  and 5.6.4.  State corrective actions taken or planned, including the anticipated date that proposed actions are expected to be completed. (T-1). 5.7.  Followup  On  GAO  Reports.  Followup  is  an  integral  part  of  good  management  and  is  a responsibility shared by Air Force managers and auditors.  After GAO issues a final report, Air Force management must take timely and effective corrective action on agreed-upon findings and recommendations  which  apply  to  their  programs  and  activities.  (T-1).    The  DoD  IG  performs periodic inquires and followup reviews to assess the adequacy of corrective action taken.  DoD Instruction 7650.03 prescribes basic policies for this system. 5.8.  Air Force Status Reports.  The following Air Force procedures apply when responding to DoD IG followup status requests. 5.8.1.  SAF/FMFC will suspense follow up tasking memorandums received from the DoD IG to Secretariat and Air Staff offices. Secretariat/Air Staff OPRs will closely track and monitor open action items through their completion. 5.8.2.  Secretariat and Air Staff OPRs are responsible for reporting the status of management actions.  If an action has been completed, the OPR will provide a synopsis of the completed action together with a complete response to the status inquiry.  Where corrective action has not  been  taken,  the  OPR  will  explain  the  slippage  and  provide  a  revised  completion  date.  OPRs will submit the completed response to SAF/FMFC. 5.8.3.  When  a  status  report  cites  potential  monetary  benefits  as  a  result  of  implementing  a recommendation,  the  OPR  must  comment  on  the  accuracy  of  the  benefit,  and  coordinate those  comments  with  SAF/FMB.    Secretariat/Air  Staff  OPRs  will  ensure  any  comments relating to National Guard Bureau benefits are coordinated with NGB/FMA.   5.8.4.  SAF/FMFC will forward Air Force comments or status reports to the DoD IG. AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 14  DOUGLAS E BENNETT Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management) AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 15 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ATTACHMENT 1 References DoD Instruction 7650.01, Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Comptroller General Requests for Access to Records, January 27, 2009 with Change 1 dated August 24, 2011 DoD Instruction 7650.02, Government Accountability Office Reviews and Reports, November 20, 2006 DoD Instruction 7650.03, Followup on Government Accountability Office (GAO), Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DOD), and Internal Audit Reports, December 18, 2014 AFPD 65-4 Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison With External Audit Organizations, September 7, 1993. AFI 33-360 Publications and Forms Management, December 1, 2015 Prescribed Forms AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency AFAA/DO—Air Force Audit Agency, Directorate of Operations AFIMSC—Air Force Installation Mission Support Center ANG —Air National Guard BES—Budget Estimate Submission DoD IG—Department of Defense Inspector General DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency GAO—Government Accountability Office HQ USAF/JA—Judge Advocate General HQ USAF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff Operations, Plans and Requirements MAJCOM—Major Command NGB-National Guard Bureau—OMB-Office of Management and Budget OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense PAO—Primary Action Office 16 AFI65-401  16 FEBRUARY 2016 POC—Point of Contact POM—Program Objective Memorandum SAF/FM—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller SAF/FMF—Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations   SAF/FMFC—Air Force Audit Liaison SAF/FMFR—Director for Accounting Policy and Reporting SAF/IG—Secretary of Air Force Inspector General SAF/PAS—Chief Office For Security Reviews  