BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-201 29 JANUARY 2016 SCIENTIFIC, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT OF SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL INFORMATION (STINFO) COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  SAF/AQRE  Supersedes:  AFI61-201, 16 June 1995; AFI 61-202, 25 July 1994; AFI61-203, 25 July 1994; AFI61-204, 30 August 2002; AFI61-205, 25 July 1994  Certified by: SAF/AQR  (Dr. David E. Walker) Pages: 18  This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 61-2, Management of Scientific and  Technical  Information.    It  provides  guidance  and  procedures  on  creating,  protecting, disseminating,  archiving  or  destroying  Air  Force  STINFO  through  the  entire  acquisition  life cycle.    It  applies  to  all  Air  Force  personnel  at  all  levels  that  develop,  manage,  review, disseminate and/or use Air Force STINFO, including the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and other organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air Force.  This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level, but route all supplements  that  directly  implement  this  publication  to  SAF/AQR  for  coordination  prior  to certification and approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility,  usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqr-workflow@mail.mil, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.    The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers. Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of 2 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication has been substantially revised and requires a complete review.  It incorporates updated Department of Defense (DoD) policy and consolidates numerous Air Force instructions (AFI61-201,  61-202,  61-203,  61-204,  and  61-205)  to  provide  greater  clarity  concerning  the processes and responsibilities of managing Air Force scientific and technical information.  AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 3 Chapter 1 AIR FORCE STINFO 1.1.  Overview.  This  instruction  establishes  guidance  and  procedures  to  manage  STINFO throughout  the  acquisition  life  cycle.    The  purpose  of  this  instruction  is  to  maximize  the availability,  interchange,  and  collaboration  of  STINFO  to  policy  makers,  the  acquisition community,  and  public  while  safeguarding  it  within  the  bounds  of  law,  regulation,  other directives  and executive  requirements.      Use this AFI with  Department of Defense  Instruction (DoDI)  3200.12,  DoD  Scientific  and  Technical  Information  Program  (STIP);  Department  of Defense  Manual  (DoDM)  3200.14  Volume  1,  Principles  and  Operational  Parameters  of  the DoD Scientific and Technical Information Program (STIP): General Processes; DoDI 3200.20, Scientific  and  Engineering  Integrity;  DoDI  5230.24,  Distribution  Statements  on  Technical Documents;  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  5230.25,  Withholding  of  Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure;  AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program; AFI  61-101,  Management  of  Science  and  Technology;  and  AFI  63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Life Cycle  Management.  All  Air  Force  personnel  and  organizations  that  create,  use,  or  handle STINFO should have an understanding of how to manage such information. 1.1.1.  STINFO  is  a  key  outcome  and  record  of  Air  Force  basic  research,  applied  research, and  advanced  technology  development.    Research  progress  and  results  are  sent  to  the Defense  Technical  Information  Center  (DTIC)  or  other  DoD  approved  repositories  for cataloging, storage and dissemination. 1.1.2.  The Air Force adheres to scientific and engineering integrity in accordance with DoDI 3200.20  to  communicate,  collaborate,  and  interchange  STINFO  among  DoD  scientists, engineers, acquisition professionals, other federal agencies, and academic, private sector, and international partners.  1.1.3.  The  Air  Force  marks  all  STINFO  with  distribution  statements,  regardless  of  the medium used. 1.1.4.  The  Air  Force  withholds  all  unclassified  technical  data  that  discloses  critical technology  or information with  military or space  application in  the possession  or under the control  of  a  DoD  Component  that  may  not  be  exported  lawfully  without  an  approval, authorization, or license in accordance with DoDD 5230.25. 1.1.5.  Technical information may be classified, controlled unclassified information (CUI), or unclassified  publicly  releasable  and  is  controlled  IAW  DoDI  5210.83,  DoD  Unclassified Controlled  Nuclear  Information  (UNCI),  DoDM  5200.01-Volume  1,  DoD  Information Security  Program:  Overview,  Classification,  and  Declassification,  DoDM  5200.01-Volume 2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information, DoDM 5200.01-Volume 4, DoD Information Security Program: Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), DoDM  5205.07,  Volume  4,  Special  Access  Program  (SAP)  Security  Manual:  Marking, DoDD 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release, AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program and AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review. 1.2.  Applicability. 4 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 1.2.1.  The  acquisition  and  documentation  of  STINFO  is  applicable  to  Air  Force  Basic Research,  Applied  Research,  and  Advanced  Technology  Development  (RDT&E  budget activity categories 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3, respectively) in accordance with DoDI 3200.12. 1.2.2.  The  distribution,  control,  and  dissemination  of  STINFO  is  applicable  to  Air  Force RDT&E, Procurements and Operations and Maintenance (O&M) efforts in accordance with DoDI 5230.24 and DoDD 5230.25. 1.2.2.1.  STINFO  that  is  subject  to  this  instruction  includes  any  information  that  can  be used,  or  adapted  for  use,  to  design,  produce,  manufacture,  assemble,  test,  operate, maintain, repair, overhaul, or reproduce any United States military system equipment or software or technology concerning such equipment. 1.2.2.2.  O&M  technical  data  supporting  sustainment,  logistics,  maintenance,  repair, supply,  and  testing  that  are  subject  to  the  restrictions  of  DoDI  5230.24  are  maintained, disseminated,  and  controlled  by  the  cognizant  heads  of  Air  Force  sustainment  and  life-cycle management centers, consistent with this instruction. 1.2.3.  This instruction does not apply to Air Force programs involving day-to-day operations used  by  the  warfighter  (unless  required  for  scientific  and  technical  analysis),  Air  Force STINFO  produced  by intelligence  and communications  security  information  as  defined  by  DoDI  O-3115.07,  Signals  Intelligence (SIGINT), and DoDI 8523.01, Communications Security (COMSEC). intelligence  community,  or the to  signals 1.3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 1.3.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will: 1.3.1.1.  Develop Air Force policy on the distribution, control, dissemination, and use of STINFO during the pre-acquisition phase and through the entire life cycle. 1.3.2.  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Science,  Technology  and Engineering (SAF/AQR) will: 1.3.2.1.  Serve  as  the  Air  Force  STINFO  Manager  and  focal  point  for  all  Air  Force STINFO  matters  to  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Research  and  Engineering (ASD[R&E]), DTIC, and the other Services. 1.3.2.2.  Provide  guidance  and  oversight  of  STINFO  matters  to  include  creating, acquiring, documenting, marking, protecting, disseminating, withholding, , archiving, and destroying.  1.3.2.3.  Delegate,  as  necessary,  the  authority  to  withhold  controlled  unclassified technical  data.    Authorities  include  identifying  classes  of  technical  data  to  withhold, acting  on  appeals  for  denials  of  technical  data  release,  temporarily  revoking  a contractor’s  qualification,  receiving  and  evaluating  requests  for  reinstatement  of  a contractor’s  qualification,  and  recommending  a  contractor’s  disqualification  to  the ASD(R&E). 1.3.2.4.  Provide  support  on  STINFO  matters  to  the  Air  Force  Security  Enterprise  and Mission Assurance Steering Group (SEMA SG), and the Security Enterprise and Mission Assurance Working Group (SEMA WG). AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 5 1.3.2.5.  Promote  a  culture  of  scientific  and  engineering  ethics  to  assure  the  integrity  of Air Force research and engineering activities and information. 1.3.3.  Major Commands (MAJCOM) will: 1.3.3.1.  Ensure STINFO is correctly  marked, distributed and controlled. 1.3.3.2.  Ensure work-in-progress data and final results of Air Force funded or conducted basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development is sent to DTIC. 1.3.3.3.  Designate a STINFO manager, as appropriate, to develop and oversee a program ensuring the proper marking, dissemination, protection, archiving and destruction of Air Force STINFO.  1.3.3.4.  Train  and  educate  personnel  on  the  fundamentals  of  Distribution  Statement markings.  Training and education materials are available in the Acquisition Workbench STINFO Module. 1.3.3.5.  Promote communication, collaboration, and interchange of STINFO among the DoD, federal agencies, and the general public. 1.3.4.  Air Force Units Responsible for STINFO will: 1.3.4.1.  Establish  and  oversee  the  Command  STINFO  program  and  designate  a  unit  STINFO manager, as appropriate.  (T-2). 1.3.4.2.  Conduct literature searches within six months of beginning or making significant changes  to  a  technical  effort  in  basic  research  (budget  activity  6.1),  applied  research (budget activity 6.2), or advanced technology development (budget activity 6.3).  (T-1). 1.3.4.3.  Send to DTIC or other DoD approved repositories work-in-progress data within 30  days  of  the  start  of  an  effort,  and  annually  thereafter  until  effort  is  completed, cancelled or terminated.  (T-1). 1.3.4.4.  Document and send to DTIC or other DoD approved repositories all significant scientific  or  technological  observations,  findings,  recommendations,  and  results, regardless of outcome, of Air Force basic research (budget activity 6.1), applied research (budget  activity  6.2),  or  advanced  technology  development  (budget  activity  6.3)  efforts within 180 days of completion.  (T-1). 1.3.4.5.  Apply  appropriate  Distribution  Statements  and  destruction  notices  on  STINFO resulting  from  RDT&E,  Procurement  and  O&M  efforts  to  indicate  any  secondary distribution or export control limitations.  (T-0). 1.3.4.6.  Verify  eligibility  for  access  to  DoD  technical  information  for  all  requesters. Non-DoD requesters are processed IAW DoDD 5230.25.  (T-0). 1.3.4.7.  Coordinate  STINFO  matters  with  appropriate  offices,  including  the  Office  of Research  and  Technology  Application,  relevant  technical  libraries,  Foreign  Disclosure Office  (FDO),  Judge  Advocate  General  (JAG),  Public  Affairs  (PA),  Information Assurance, Information Protection, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and Operations Security (OPSEC) Offices.  (T-2). 1.3.4.8.  Coordinate with contracting offices to ensure contracts contain requirements for government-defined  Distribution  Statements,  export  control  warnings,  destruction 6 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 notices,  intellectual  property  clauses,  and,  where  appropriate,  American  National Standard Institute (ANSI) standards for deliverable STINFO.  (T-2). 1.3.4.9.  Ensure that all records are maintained and managed in accordance with National Archives  and  Records  Administration’s  approved  dispositions  to  ensure  proper maintenance,  use,  accessibility,  and  preservation,  regardless  of  format  or  medium  as directed  by  DoDD  5015.2,  DoD  Records  Management  Program,  AFMAN  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System (AFRIMS).  (T-0). 1.3.4.10.  Ensure  workforce  completes  annual  STINFO  training    using  the  STINFO education  courses  in  the  Acquisition  Workbench,  to  maintain  awareness  of  policy  and procedures regarding proper marking, dissemination, withholding, protecting, archiving, and destroying of STINFO.  (T-3). 1.3.4.11.  Handle unclassified STINFO marked with Distribution Statements B, C, D, E, or F in the same manner as FOUO material per DoDI 5230.24. 1.3.4.12.  Destroy  unclassified  STINFO  documents  by  any  method  that  will  prevent disclosure  of  contents  or  reconstruction  of  the  document  IAW  DoDI  5230.24.    Destroy classified  STINFO  documents  IAW  AFI  16-1404,  Air  Force  Information  Security Program. 1.3.4.13.  Protect  STINFO  documents  by  encryption  when  transmitting  via  email  IAW AFI  10-701,  Operations  Security  (OPSEC)  and  AFMAN  33-152,  User  Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems. AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 7 Chapter 2 MANAGING STINFO 2.1.  Overview.  The  Air  Force  will  promote  communication,  collaboration,  and  interchange  of scientific  and  engineering  information  among  federal  agencies  and  the  general  public  by encouraging  the  presentation  of  STINFO  in  an  unclassified,  unrestricted  forum  IAW  DoD,  Air Force and local  clearance procedures and within the limits  of law, government data rights,  and national security requirements. 2.1.1.  The Air Force will utilize technical symposia and professional societies as an effective mechanism  for  transfer  and  exchange  of  STINFO  as  well  as  supporting  the  professional development of Air Force scientists and engineers. 2.1.2.  The  Air  Force  will  adhere  to  scientific  and  engineering  integrity  in  accordance  with DoDI 3200.20 to  promote and instill a culture of collaboration and interchange of STINFO among  DoD,  other  government  agencies,  and  academic,  private  sector,  and  international partners. 2.2.  Documenting STINFO. 2.2.1.  Within six months of beginning or making significant changes to continuing research (budget  activity  6.1),  applied  research  (budget  activity  6.2),  or  advanced  technology development  (budget  activity  6.3)  efforts,  Air  Force  personnel  conduct  preliminary  and periodic  searches  of  research  in  progress  and  completed  research  to  define  the  technology baseline, avoid duplication of effort, and justify investment. 2.2.1.1.  Research  efforts  subject  to  literature  searches  include  initiating  any  in-house effort,  arranging  for  work  to  be  performed  by  other  Government  agencies,  requesting contractual services, proposal reviews for Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) contract awards, significant changes to ongoing efforts, and confirming the uniqueness of subject matter and innovations of unsolicited proposals. 2.2.1.2.  Literature  searches  are  not  necessary  for  equipment,  maintenance,  routine engineering, training, and conferences. 2.2.2.  Work-in-progress  data  at  the  performer  level  for  technical  efforts  research  (budget activity  6.1),  applied  research  (budget  activity  6.2),  or  advanced  technology  development (budget activity 6.3) sponsored in whole or in part by the Air Force are sent to DTIC or other DoD  approved  repositories  within  30  days  of  the  start  of  an  effort  and  annually  thereafter until effort is completed, cancelled or terminated. 2.2.2.1.  This  includes  research  efforts  performed  by  DoD  laboratories,  other  federal laboratories,  Federally  Funded  Research  and  Development  Centers  (FFRDCs), contractors, educational institutions, and private individuals.  Research efforts may be in the form of contracts, grants, cooperative research and development agreements, studies and analysis efforts, contracted advisory and assistance services, technically distinct tasks under task-order contracts, and other transactions. 2.2.2.2.  Work-in-progress  data  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  the  entity  performing  the task, performance dates, funding, and technical summary for technical efforts in research 8 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 (budget  activity  6.1),  applied  research  (budget  activity  6.2),  or  advanced  technology development (budget activity 6.3). 2.2.2.3.  Data  may  be  submitted  manually  or  automatically  uploaded  to  DTIC  unified research  and  engineering  database  (URED)  that  can  be  accessed  through  the  DTIC website. 2.2.3.  All  significant  scientific  or  technological  observations,  findings,  recommendations, and  results  that  are  derived  from  research  (budget  activity  6.1),  applied  research  (budget activity 6.2), or advanced technology development (budget activity 6.3) efforts sponsored in whole  or  in  part  by  the  Air  Force  are  documented  and  sent  to  DTIC  or  other  approved repository  within  180  days  after  completing  the  work.  Classified  documents  that  are  not accepted by DTIC or other DoD approved repository, are exempt. 2.2.3.1.  The  Air  Force  or  external  organization  responsible  for  each  research  effort submits  to  DTIC  data  that  documents  the  effort  to  enable  others  to  understand  the purpose, scope, approach, results or outcomes, and conclusions or recommendations. 2.2.3.2.  The documentation should contain a summary of work accomplished, to include positive and negative results.  It describes theoretical studies, experimental work, design, theory of operation, test procedures, test results, drawings, charts, graphs, illustrations, or other material needed to clarify the presentation. 2.2.3.3.  Primary  sources  of  the  information  are  also  submitted.    Providing  citations  to where the information may be found is not sufficient.  The documentation should contain sufficient detail to allow the methods to be replicated and the results compared. 2.2.3.4.  Findings  may  be  expressed  in  a  range  of  products,  such  as  technical  reports, conference  papers  and  presentations,  briefing  charts,  theses  and  dissertations,  scientific and technical computer software, journal articles, workshop reports, program documents, patents, and scientific research datasets, or other types of data. 2.2.3.5.  If  an  external  organization  responsible  for  a  research  effort  elects  to  submit materials  protected  by  copyright,  such  as  peer-reviewed  journal  articles,  as  part  of  its documentation  of  the  effort,  DTIC  makes  the  information  available  consistent  with  the license  afforded  to  the  government  under  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  applicable contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or other type of transaction. 2.2.3.6.  The  Standard  Form  (SF)  298,  “Report  Documentation  Page,”  should  be completed for each documented effort.  To the greatest extent practical, prepare scientific and technical reports, regardless of media or form, IAW ANSI/NISO Z39.18-2005. 2.3.  Managing Distribution of STINFO. 2.3.1.  All  Air  Force offices  generating or  responsible for STINFO resulting  from  RDT&E, Procurement  and  O&M  efforts  will  determine  the  Distribution  Statement  and  mark  it appropriately before primary distribution. 2.3.2.  Distribution statements are used on unclassified, controlled unclassified, and classified technical  information  to  identify  the  availability  for  secondary  distribution,  release,  and disclosure  without  additional  approvals  and  authorizations  from  the  controlling  DoD  office (CDO)  (  office  generating  or  responsible  for  the  information).    Distribution  statements  are AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 9 used in addition to applicable classification, dissemination control markings and intellectual property notices. intended for 2.3.3.  STINFO includes  RDT&E, Procurement  and  O&M  data  that  can  be  used,  or  adapted  for  use,  to  design,  produce, manufacture,  assemble,  test,  operate,  maintain,  repair,  overhaul,  or  reproduce  any  United States military system equipment or software or technology concerning such equipment. limited  or  controlled  distribution 2.3.3.1.  Technical information formats and types include, but are not limited to, models, prototypes,  blueprints,  photographs,  plans,  instructions,  operating  manuals,  engineering drawings,  engineering  data  and  associated  lists,  standards,  specifications,  technical manuals, technical reports, technical orders (TO), computer software and documentation, catalog-item identifications, data sets, studies and analyses. 2.3.4.  The CDO assigns Distribution Statements and their corresponding reasons IAW DoDI 5230.24 on all newly created, revised, or previously unmarked unclassified and classified Air Force technical documents, regardless of media or format. 2.3.4.1.  Distribution statements are displayed conspicuously on all technical  documents regardless of media or format.  For standard written or printed material the Distribution Statement is shown on all pages to the maximum extent practical and at a minimum on the front cover, title page, and SF 298, where applicable.  If the technical information is digitally  prepared  or  in  any  other  medium  that  does  not  have  a  cover  or  title  page,  the applicable  Distribution  Statement  is  affixed  to  all  physical  and  digital  items  by  other means in a conspicuous position for ready recognition. 2.3.4.2.  Portions or pages of a document or compilation may have different Distribution Statements  that  would  govern  their  distribution  if  separated  from  the  main  document.  The most restrictive distribution on its parts applies to the document as a whole.  When possible or appropriate, those parts of the document that contain CUI are prepared as an attachment,  addendum,  annex,  enclosure,  or  similar  section to  allow  separate dissemination  of  the  basic  document  at  the  lowest  level  of  restriction  and  to  the  widest audience. 2.3.4.3.  Technical documents in preliminary or working draft form will be marked with a temporary  notice  and/or  Distribution  Statement indicating  a  pending  security classification  and/or  Distribution  Statement  prior  to  review.    If  the  appropriate Distribution  Statement  is  not  yet  determined,  limit  dissemination  to  DoD  Components only (Distribution Statement E). 2.3.4.4.  Distribution Statements remain in effect until changed or removed by the CDO.  Removal  of  or  tampering  with  control  markings  by  unauthorized  personnel  is  strictly prohibited. 2.3.5.  Prior  to  release  to  the  public  unclassified  technical  documents  ,  the  CDO  must  have the  documents  approved  for  release  by  the  local  Public  Affairs  (PA)  office  or  authorized public  release  authority.    Ensure  documents  submitted  to  PA  for  public  release  are  in  final format, and not marked “draft” per AFI 35-102, paragraph 8 and 9.2.1. 2.3.5.1.  Technical  documents  resulting  from  contracted  basic  research  (budget  activity 6.1)  and  applied  research  (budget  activity  6.2)  efforts  performed  on-campus  at  a 10 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 university  are  normally  assigned  Distribution  Statement  A  without  requiring  PA  office review.    Do  not  use  Distribution  Statement  A  in  circumstances  where  there  is  a  high likelihood  of  disclosing  performance  characteristics  of  military  systems  or  of manufacturing  technologies  that  are  unique  and  critical  to  defense.    In  such  cases,  the performer should contact the CDO to determine Distribution Statement. 2.3.6.  Unclassified technical documents subject to controls on the access, use, reproduction, modification, performance, display, release, disclosure, or dissemination are not releasable to the public.  They are marked with an appropriate Distribution Statement, and handled using the  same  standard  as  For  Official  Use  Only  (FOUO)  material  prescribed  in  DoDI  5230.24 and Air Force Information Security Regulations. 2.3.7.  Technical  documents  that  have  not  been  assigned  a  Distribution  Statement  must  be handled  as  Distribution  Statement  E  (equivalent  to  “For  Official  Use  Only  (FOUO))  until reviewed/changed by the CDO. 2.3.8.  Classified  technical  documents  are  not  releasable  to  the  public  and  are  assigned  the appropriate  Distribution  Statement,  IAW  DoDI  5230.24.    The  Distribution  Statement assigned  to  a  classified  technical  document  is  retained  on  the  document  after  its declassification or until changed or removed by the CDO.  Declassified technical documents without an assigned Distribution Statement are handled as Distribution “E” (equivalent to For Official Use Only (FOUO)) until reviewed/changed by the CDO. 2.3.9.  When technical information is delivered to the Government with a contractor or third party-imposed  intellectual  property  marking,  those  markings  must  be  verified  and  the appropriate Distribution Statement must be applied IAW DoDI 5230.24, Enclosure 5, Third Party-Imposed  Distribution  Statements.    The  appropriate  Distribution  Statement  is  entirely dependent on the scope of the Government’s rights to use those materials.  In most cases, the reason  “Proprietary  Information”  provides  the  basis  for  Distribution  Statements  B,  E,  or  F.  When used as the reason for limitation, note the Government’s license rights as described in subparagraph  2.a.(1)  of  DoDI  5230.24,  Enclosure  5  in  parentheses  (i.e.,  Proprietary Information (DFARS Limited Rights) or Proprietary Information (DFARS SBIR Rights)).  If the  Government  has  “Unlimited  Rights”  in  the  information,  then  the  materials  may  even qualify  for  Distribution  Statement  A,  after  appropriate  clearance  procedures  IAW  DoDD 5230.09 and DoDI 5230.29. 2.3.9.1.  Do  not  just  assume  third  party-imposed  proprietary  markings  are  accurate.    In many cases, third parties unfamiliar with Government marking requirements improperly place  restrictive  markings  on  technical  information.    Failure  to  timely  challenge  any improperly  placed  restrictive  markings  may  result  in  the  loss  of  Government  licensing rights.    Ordinarily,  the  comprehensive  basis  for  the  Government’s  licensing  rights  is provided  in  a  legally  binding  instrument  that  governs  the  transaction  under  which  the Government  received  the  proprietary  information  (e.g.,  the  procurement  contract,  grant, cooperative agreement, or other transaction agreement). 2.3.10.  All printed and electronic technical documents that are determined to contain export-controlled  technical  data  are  not  public  releasable  and  are  assigned  an  appropriate Distribution Statement with “Export Controlled” as a reason for limitation and marked with an export control warning statement as detailed in DoDI 5230.24, Enclosure 4. AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 11 2.4.  Disseminating and Withholding STINFO. 2.4.1.  Dissemination  beyond  the  audience  stated  in  the  Distribution  Statement  must  be reviewed and approved for release by the CDO. 2.4.2.  Make  unclassified  technical  data  governed  by  DoDD  5230.25  available  IAW  DoDI 5230.24, DoDD 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release, DoDI 5230.29, Security  and  Policy  Review  of  DoD  Information  for  Public  Release,  and  DoDD  5400.07, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program. 2.4.3.  The  Air  Force  may  withhold  from  public  disclosure  any  of  its  technical  data  with military or space application if such data may not be exported lawfully without an approval, authorization, or license in accordance with export control laws and regulations identified in DoDD 5230.25.  This includes Air Force O&M technical data for items on the United States Munitions List or Commerce Control List which are export controlled and are exempt from release to the general public under the FOIA. 2.4.4.  The  CDO  may  authorize  release  of  export-controlled  technical  data  to  currently qualified contractors as defined in DoDD 5230.25.  Contractors must have a valid DD Form 2345, Military Critical Technical Data Agreement and the documents can only be sent to the document custodian (Blocks 2 and 3 of DD Form 2345). 2.4.4.1.  Any  release  of  export-controlled  technical  data  to  qualified  contractors  is accompanied by a notice to the recipient as set forth in DoDD 5230.25, Enclosure 5. 2.4.4.2.  Qualified  U.S.  contractors  who  receive  export-controlled  technical  data  may disseminate such data consistent with the direction in DoDD 5230.25, Paragraph 5.8. 2.4.5.  Technical data with “limited rights” or “restricted rights” as defined in subsections 9-201(c) and 9-604(j) of the DoD Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) or that are authorized to be withheld from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) may not be released.  The CDO may withhold technical information from contractors if: 2.4.5.1.  The qualification of the contractor concerned has been temporarily revoked. 2.4.5.2.  The  requested  data  are    judged  to  be  unrelated  to  the  purpose  for  which  a qualified contractor is certified. 2.4.5.3.  The  technical  data  are  being  requested  for  a  purpose  other  than  to  permit  the requester to bid or perform on a contract with the DoD or other Government agency, and the  significance  of  such  data  is  such  that  release  may  jeopardize  an  important  U.S. technological or operational advantage. 2.4.6.  Provide  any  requester  denied  technical  data  with  a  written  statement  of  reasons  for that  action,  and  advise  them  of  the  right  to  make  a  written  appeal  of  such  determination  to SAF/AQR per DoDD 5230.25. 2.4.7.  SAF/AQR  will  revoke  temporarily  a  U.S.  contractor’s  qualification  and  notify  the contractor,  SAF/AQ,  ASD(R&E),DTIC,  and  appropriate  law  enforcement  agencies  upon receipt  of  credible  and  sufficient  information  from  DoD  personnel  that  a  qualified  U.S. contractor has violated U.S. export control law, violated its certification, made a certification in bad faith, or made an omission or misstatement of material fact. 12 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 2.4.7.1.  The contractor is  given an opportunity to  respond in  writing to  the information upon which the temporary revocation is based before being disqualified. 2.4.7.2.  SAF/AQR  may  reinstate  any  U.S.  contractor  whose  qualification  has  been revoked  temporarily  upon  presentation  of  sufficient  information  showing  that  the  basis for such revocation was in error or has been remedied. 2.4.7.3.  SAF/AQR may recommend disqualification of the contractor when the basis for a  contractor’s  temporary  revocation  cannot  be  removed  within  20  working  days.  SAF/AQR  will  coordinate  with  the  judge  advocate  and  general  counsel  and  make  a disqualification recommendation to SAF/AQ and ASD(R&E), in turn. 2.4.8.  Redirect requests for STINFO received from a certified U.S. contractor performing a foreign military sales (FMS) program  to the foreign disclosure office for approval.  Prior to initiation, all foreign cooperative science and technology programs  will seek approval  from the appropriate foreign disclosure and technology transfer agency to ensure compliance with 22 USC 2778 of the Arms Export Control Act. 2.4.8.1.  Requests  for  STINFO  from  foreign  contractors  who  are  not  bidding  or performing  on  a  Government  contract,  should  be  made    through  their  embassy.  The embassy  may  submit  the  request  to  the  Deputy  Undersecretary  of  the  Air  Force  for International  Affairs  (SAF/IA),  Country  Director.  (See  AFPD  16-2,  Disclosure  of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations.) 2.4.8.2.  For  dissemination  of  export-controlled  technical  data  to  foreign  contractors bidding  or  performing  on  a  government  contact,  ensure  the  request  for  proposal  or contract  contains  non-disclosure  or  contractual  language  obligating  the  contractor  to properly protect and manage export-controlled technical data in lieu of a DD Form 2345.  Additionally, the contractor shall meet International Traffic In Arms Regulations (ITAR), 22 CFR 125 - Licenses for the Export of Technical Data and Classified Defense Articles, requirements  for  export  of  technical  data.  TO  requests  are  submitted  IAW  TO  00-5-19, Security Assistance Technical Order Program.  RICHARD W. LOMBARDI Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 13 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 3200.12, DoDScientific and Technical Information Program (STIP), August 22, 2013 DoDM 3200.14, Volume 1, Principles and Operational Parameters of the DoD Scientific and Technical Information Program (STIP): General Process, March 14, 2014 DoDI 3200.20, Scientific and Engineering Integrity, 26 July 2012 DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000 DoDM 5200.01, Volume 1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and Declassification, February 24, 2012 DoDM 5200.01, Volume 2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information, February 24, 2012, IC2, March 19, 2013 DoDM 5200.01, Volume 4, DoD Information Security Program: Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), February 24, 201 DoDM 5205.07, Volume 4, Special Access Program (SAP) Security Manual: Marking, October 10, 2013DoDD 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release, 22 August  2008 DoDI 5210.83, DoD Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UNCI), 12 July 2012 DoDI 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents, August 23, 2012 DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure, November 6, 1984, IC2, August 18, 1995 DoDI 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DoD Information for Public Release, 13 August 2014 DoDD 5400.07, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, 2 January 2008 DoD5400.7-R_AFMAN33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 2010 DoDI O-3115.07, Signals Intelligence (SIGINT), September 15, 2008 DoDI 8523.01, Communications Security (COMSEC), April 22, 2008 AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, 10 September 1993 AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information, March 28, 2014 AFI 16-1604, Air Force Information Security Program, May 29, 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, December 1, 2015 AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, October 20, 2009 AFI 61-101, Management of Science and Technology, March 14, 2013 AFI 63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, March 7, 2013 14 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,  March 1, 2008 TO 00-5-3, Life cycle Management, December 31, 2009 TO 00-5-19, Security Assistance Technical Order Program, 18 February, 2010 ANSI/NISO Z39.18-205, Scientific and Technical Reports – Preparation, Presentation, and Preservation Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication SF 298, Report Documentation Page DD Form 2345, Military Critical Technical Data Agreement Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual  AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANSI—American National Standards Institute ASD (R&E)—Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering BAA—Broad Agency Announcement COMSEC—Communications Security CDO—Controlling DoD Office CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DoDM—Department of Defense Manual DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Centers FOIA—Freedom of Information Act FOUO—For Official Use Only IR&D—Independent Research and Development ITAR—International Traffic in Arms Regulations MAJCOM—Major Command AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 15 O&M—Operations and Maintenance PA—Public Affairs RDS—Records Disposition Schedule  RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) SAF/AQR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Science, Technology, Engineering) SAF/IA—Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force for International Affairs SF—Standard Form SIGINT—Signals Intelligence STIP—Scientific and Technical Information Program TO—Technical Order URED—Unified Research and Engineering Database USML—United States Munitions List Terms Advanced  Technology  Development—Research  efforts  that  have  moved  beyond  Applied Research and into the development and integration of hardware for field experiments and tests. Also referred to as “6.3” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 3. Applied Research—Systemic study to gain knowledge or understanding necessary to determine the  means  by  which  a  recognized  and  specific  need  may  be  met.  Also  referred  to  as  “6.2”  or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 2. Arms  Export  Control—The  law  set  out  in  22  U.S.C.  27512794.  This  requires  obtaining  a license  from  the  Department  of  State  for  exporting  Defense  articles  and  services,  including technical  data  related  to  weapons.  It  is  implemented  by  the  International  Traffic  in  Arms Regulations (ITAR) set out in 22 CFR 121130. Basic  Research—Systemic  study  directed  toward  greater  knowledge  or  understanding  of  the fundamental aspects of phenomena and of observable facts without specific application towards processes  or  products  in  mind.  It  includes  all  scientific  study  and  experimentation  directed toward  increasing  fundamental  knowledge  and  understanding  in  those  fields  of  the  physical, engineering,  environmental,  and  life  sciences  related  to  long-term  national  security  needs.  It  is farsighted high payoff research that provides the basis for technological progress. Also referred to as “6.1” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 1. Budget Activity—A broad category of activity contained within a specific appropriation. Controlling DoD Office (CDO)—The Air Force activity that sponsored the work that generated the technical data or received the technical data acts as the CDO for the Department of Defense and,  therefore,  has  the  responsibility  for  determining  the  distribution  of  a  document  containing such  technical  data.  For  joint  sponsorship,  the  controlling  office  is  determined  by  advance agreement and may be a party, group, or committee representing the interested activities or the 16 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 DoD  Components.    Only  the  CDO  or  higher  authority  may  authorize  distribution  beyond  the distribution statement. requires Controlled  Unclassified  Information safeguarding  or  dissemination  controls,  pursuant  to  and  consistent  with  applicable  law, regulations, and Government-wide policies. (CUI)—Unclassified information that Distribution  Statement—A  statement  used  in  marking  a  technical  document,  regardless  of publication  media  or  form,  to  denote  the  extent  of  its  availability  for  secondary  distribution, release, and disclosure without additional approvals and authorizations from the controlling DoD office. Defense  Technical  Information  Center  (DTIC)—Collects,  indexes,  catalogs,  and  provides storage  for  scientific  and  technical  information  obtained  from  DoD  Components  and  their contractors, non-DoD domestic sources and foreign sources.  Maintains and operates centralized databases of technical and management-related information describing the content and scope of research and engineering programs.  Is under the authority, direction, and control of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering. Export-Controlled  Technical  Data—Data  that  cannot  be  lawfully  exported  without  the approval,  authorization,  or  license  under  U.S.  export  control  laws.  The  controlling  regulations and  documents  are  the  Export  Administration  Regulations,  the  International  Traffic  in  Arms Regulations (ITAR), and the U.S. Munitions List (USML). Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)—FOIA is a Federal law that establishes the public’s right to request existing records from Federal Government Agencies.  The FOIA program is governed by DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program. Independent  Research  and  Development  (IR&D)  Database—The  IR&D  database  contains descriptions of R&D projects initiated by DoD contractors but not performed under contract. Intellectual Property—Refers to a number of distinct types of creations of the mind for which property rights are recognized--and the corresponding fields of law. Under intellectual property law, owners are granted certain exclusive rights to a variety of intangible assets, such as musical, literary,  and  artistic  works;  discoveries  and  inventions;  and  words,  phrases,  symbols,  and designs.  Common  types  of  intellectual  property  include  copyrights,  trademarks,  patents, industrial design rights and trade secrets in some jurisdictions. Legitimate Business Relationship—A legitimate business relationship exists when the DoD has determined  that  a  need  exists  to  acquire,  share,  exchange,  or  disseminate  DoD  technical information to anyone other than a DoD Government employee for supporting the DoD mission.  That  relationship  may  be  established  by  any  agreeable  means  such  as  a  memorandum  of understanding,  agreement,  contract,  or  grant.    The  DoD  has  the  sole  responsibility  for determining  that  a  legitimate  business  relationship  exists  since  the  only  purpose  is  to  provide access  to  information  created by or under the  control of the DoD.  Such  a relationship  may be established  with  an  individual  or  organization  in  another  Federal  department  or  agency; contractors,  grantees,  potential  DoD  contractors;  other  branches  of  the  Federal  Government; State and local governments; and foreign countries. AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 17 Primary  Distribution—Distribution  of  scientific  and  technical  information  by  the  controlling DoD  office.  Includes  initial  distribution  as  well  as  any  subsequent,  case-by-case  distribution during the life of the information made by the controlling DoD office. Qualified U.S. Contractor—Defined in paragraph 3.2 in DoDD 5230.25. Research  Summary—A research summary is a set of data elements that describes, for distinct RDT&E  efforts,  what  is  being  accomplished,  the  performer,  location,  sponsor,  cost,  and progress-to-date. Scientific  and  Technical  Information  (STINFO)—Findings  and  technological  innovations resulting  from  research  and  engineering  efforts  and  science  and  technology  work  of  scientists, researchers, and engineers, whether contractor, grantee, or federal staff.  Scientific and technical information  also  conveys  the  results  of  demonstration  and  commercial  application  activities  as well as experiments, observations, simulations, war games, studies, and analyses.  Scientific and technical information is found in many forms and formats including textual, graphical, numeric, multimedia,  and  digital  data,  technical  reports,  scientific  and  technical  conference  papers  and presentations,  theses  and  dissertations,  scientific  and  technical  computer  software,  journal articles,  workshop  reports,  program  documents,  system  concepts,  patents,  and  other  forms  or formats  of  technical  data.    Scientific  and  technical  information  may  be  classified,  controlled unclassified information  (including  export controlled or personally identifiable information), or unclassified  publically  releasable.    DoD-funded  scientific  and  technical  information  originates primarily  from  research  and  other  activities  performed  by  direct  DoD-executed  prime procurements,  DoD-operated  research  activities,  and  financial  assistance  recipients,  as  well  as DoD employees. Secondary  Distribution—Release  of  technical  documents  by  other  than  the  controlling  DoD office, or without the need to refer requests for release of technical information to such office for a  dissemination  decision.    A  distribution  statement  audience  applies  to  secondary  distribution, and  requests  by  parties  or  entities  not  included  in  the  distribution  stated  audience  must  be reviewed  by  the  controlling  DoD  office  for  consideration  of  release  or  denial.    Secondary distribution includes loaning, allowing the reading, or releasing a document outright, in whole, or in part. Technical  Document—Any  recorded  information  that  conveys  scientific  and  technical information  or  technical  data.    This  includes  such  informal  documents  as  working  papers, memoranda,  and  preliminary  reports  when  such  documents  have  utility  beyond  the  immediate mission requirement or will become part of the historical record of technical achievements. Technical  Information—This  term  is  broader  in  scope  than  the  Scientific  and  Technical Information  definition  and  is  applicable  when  determining  distribution  statements  for  technical documents from RDT&E and O&M efforts.  It includes technical data or computer software of any kind that can be used, or adapted for use, in the design, production, manufacture, assembly, repair,  overhaul,  processing,  engineering,  development,  operation,  maintenance,  adapting, testing, or reconstruction of goods or material; or any technology that advances the state of the art, or establishes a new art, in an area of significant military applicability in the United States.  The  data  may  be  in  tangible  form,  such  as  a  blueprint,  photograph,  plan,  instruction,  or  an operating  manual,  or  may  be  intangible,  such  as  a  technical  service  or  oral,  auditory,  or  visual descriptions.  Examples of technical data include research and engineering data, journal articles, workshop  reports,  program  documents,  patents,  data  sets,  engineering  drawings  and  associated 18 AFI61-201  29 JANUARY 2016 lists,  catalog-item  identifications,  specifications,  standards,  process  sheets,  technical  manuals, technical reports, technical orders, studies and analyses. Technical  Orders  (TO)—Technical  Manuals  developed to  support maintenance  and operation of  centrally-procured  and  managed  Air  Force  weapon  systems  and  equipment.    The  Air  Force Technical Orders System manages and distributes Technical Orders.  The term Technical Order is equivalent to the DoD term Technical Manual. Technical  Report—Any  preliminary,  interim,  or  technical  document  (regardless  of  media) prepared  to  record,  document,  share  results,  or  make  recommendations  on  or  relating  to  DoD-sponsored  or  cosponsored  scientific,  technical  studies,  or  analytical  work.    Technical  Reports normally  detail  empirical  findings  and  include  ancillary  information  necessary  for  interpreting, applying, and replicating the results or techniques of an investigation. Test  Report—Reports  of  tests  that  document  procedures  and  results  of  subjecting  items, systems,  materials,  personnel  or  techniques  to  simulated  or  actual  operational  conditions  to determine characteristics, suitability, and compliance with specific requirements. URED—A consolidated data base of Research Summaries, Research and Engineering Database, and In-House Science and Technology Activities Report. A major purpose of the databases is to collect  information  about  research  and  development  that  is  funded  by  the  Department  of Defense. U.S.  DoD  Contractor—Those  qualified  U.S.  contractors  currently  holding  grants  or  contracts with  the  Department  of  Defense,  or  those  contractors  declared  eligible  for  DoD  information services by a sponsoring DoD activity on the basis of participation in a DoD Potential Contractor Program.  