BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-103 14 MARCH 2017 Contracting LEASING NON-EXCESS USAF AIRCRAFT, AIRCRAFT–RELATED EQUIPMENT AND OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY TO NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:  SAF/AQCP Supersedes:  AFI 64-103, 5 Jun 2015 Certified by: SAF/AQC (Mr. John M. Lyle) Pages: 22 This  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  identifies  procedures  and  responsibilities  for  leasing  U.S.  Air Force  (AF)  non-excess  personal  property,  including  aircraft  and  related  equipment,  to  non-government  organizations.    This  instruction  does  not  apply  to  leases  of  non-appropriated  fund personal property or to  military leases of U.S. property to  foreign governments or international organizations  under  the  Arms  Export  Control  Act.    This  AFI  applies  to  all  active  and  reserve components of the United States Air Force, including Air National Guard (ANG), and Air Force Reserve  Command  units.  All  contractor  requirements  contained  within  this  AFI  must  be contained  within  the  Lease  to  be  enforceable.    This  instruction  implements  AFPD  64-1,  The Contracting  System,  and  in  part,  Title  10  United  States  Code  (U.S.C.),  Section  2667,  as amended.  It  also  complements:  1)  DoD  7000.14-R,  Department  of  Defense  Financial Management  Regulation  (DoD  FMR),  Vol.11A,  “Reimbursable  Operations,  Policy,  and Procedures,”  Chapter  4,  “User  Fees”;  2)  DoD  Financial  Management  Regulation  7000.14-R, Vol.  12,  ”Special  Accounts,  Funds  and  Programs,”  Chapter  14,  “Transferring,  Disposing,  and Leasing of Real  Property  and Personal  Property”;  and 3) DoD  Instruction 7230.08,  Leases and Demonstrations of DoD Equipment. This  AFI  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  supplements  that  directly  implement  this publication  must  be  routed  to  SAF/AQCP  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.  This  document does not  contain any wing/unit  level  mandates; all mandates shall be treated  as 2 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 Tier-0  as  identified  in  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1.    Submit requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  Publication  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in  this publication  are  maintained  IAW  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  is  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.  This  publication has  been  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.  This  rewrite  of  AFI  64-103  updates referenced  publications,  reflects  current  statutes,  and  streamlines  content.  This  rewrite  also includes a compliance statement regarding tiering IAW AFI 33-360. AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 3 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW 1.1.  Purpose.  In  accordance  with  Title  10  U.S.C.,  Section  2667,  the  Air  Force  (AF)  is authorized  to  lease  certain  non-excess  property  –  including  aircraft,  aircraft-related  equipment, and  other  forms  of  personal  property  –  to  non-Governmental  entities  (e.g.  defense  contractors, industry associations) when the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), as delegated by the Secretary of the Air Force in Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-10,  determines  that  it  is  advantageous  to  do  so  and  can  be  leased  without  adversely  impacting military readiness. 1.2.  Applicability and Limitations. 1.2.1.  Air National  Guard (ANG).  The ANG will follow the procedures  in  this instruction for  lease  requests  of  aircraft  and  related  equipment.    For  other  (non-aircraft  or  related equipment)  non-excess  property  under  their  control,  the  ANG  may  process  corresponding lease  requests  in  accordance  with  National  Guard  Bureau  procedures  and  need  not  be processed through SAF/AQ.  Any such procedures shall address risk of loss and liability for damage to the leased property. 1.2.2.  Foreign  Governments.    This  instruction  does  not  apply  to  military  leases  of  defense articles to foreign governments or international organizations under the Arms Export Control Act  (AECA) Section 61  (Title 22 U.S.C., Section 2796).  Pursuant  to  AECA Section 61(c) (Title  22  U.S.C.,  Section  2796(c)),  defense  articles  in  DoD  stocks  may  not  be  leased  to  a foreign  government  or  international  organization  under  the  authority  of  Title  10  U.S.C., Section 2667. 1.2.3.  Relevance of Other Authorities.  The policies and procedures in this Instruction are in addition to but not intended to supplant other authorities that may be comparable to Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2667, including: 1.2.3.1.  Title  10  U.S.C.,  Section  2681,  which  directed  the  use  of  Test  and  Evaluation Installations  by  commercial  entities  and  was  implemented  by  DoD  Instruction  3200.18, Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB), and 1.2.3.2.  Title  10  U.S.C.,  Section  2539b,  which  is  directed  to  making  available equipment,  among  other  things,  to  other  persons  and  entities  and  implemented  by  DoD Instruction  5535.11,  Availability  of  Samples,  Drawings,  Information,  Equipment, Materials, and Certain Services to Non-DoD Persons and Entities. 1.2.3.3.  Item managers will refer to AFI 23-119, Exchange, Sale, or Temporary Custody of Nonexcess Personal Property, for procedures on making nonexcess personal property available to programs. 1.2.4.  USAF  Assets.    Title  10  U.S.C.,  Section  2667(a)  allows  the  AF  to  lease  non-excess personal property that is under AF control. 1.2.5.  Commercial-Like Assets.   It is AF policy not to lease out property that is otherwise available from commercial sources. 4 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 1.2.6.  Excess Property.  The property leased under Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2667 must not be excess  property,  as  defined  by  Title  40  U.S.C.,  Section  102,  except  as  otherwise  may  be provided in subsection 2667(g). 1.2.7.  Leasing  to  U.S.  Government  Organizations  and  Contractors.      Leasing  under  this instruction  may  not  be  used  to  provide  AF  personal  property  to  other  U.S.  government organizations  for  any  purpose  (except  on  a  non-cash  basis  for  National  Guard  Community Relations programs, see paragraph 2.4.6), or to provide AF personal property to contractors for the primary purpose of supporting U.S. Government contract requirements. AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 5 Chapter 2 EVALUATING THE LEASE REQUEST 2.1.  Procedures.  Air  Force  Materiel  Command (AFMC)  establishes  procedures  and management  controls  for  evaluating  lease  requests  for  non-excess  aircraft  and  aircraft-related equipment. AFMC’s procedures can be found on Air Force Contracting Central’s SharePoint site which  can  be  reached  on  the  Air  Force  Portal.    For  non-excess  personal  property  other  than aircraft and aircraft-related equipment, each Major Command (MAJCOM) establishes their own procedures  and  management  controls  for  evaluating  lease  requests.    At  a  minimum,  each MAJCOM will evaluate lease requests for non-excess property as described below. 2.2.  Elements  of  a  Lease  Request.  The  prospective  lessee  initiates  the  lease  request  and submits  it  in  writing  to  the  cognizant  AF  activity.    At  a  minimum,  the  lease  request  should contain: 2.2.1.  Identification  of  the  property  to  be  leased  (including  tail  numbers,  national  stock numbers,  part numbers, or applicable serial numbers, if known). 2.2.2.  Purpose of the lease; 2.2.3.  Proposed  start  date  and  duration  of  the  lease  (no  more  than  five  years,  unless determined a longer period will promote the national defense or be in the public interest IAW Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2667(b)(1)); 2.2.4.  Consideration for the lease; 2.2.5.  Proposed locations of the lease activity; 2.2.6.  Expected benefits to the lessee; 2.2.7.  Expected benefits to the Government; 2.2.8.  Statement supporting non-availability of suitable commercial items; 2.2.9.  Information on contacts (if any) with operational units or item managers to ascertain a preliminary assessment of asset availability; and 2.2.10.  Information  or  other  pertinent  facts  (e.g.,  need  for  valid  export  licenses,  support equipment requirements, intent to modify or otherwise alter the leased equipment). 2.3.  Review.  Upon receipt of a request to lease non-excess personal property, including aircraft and related equipment, the activity responsible for the property should: 2.3.1.  Evaluate  the  request  and  determine  if  the  proposed  lease  terms  promote  the  national defense or are in the public interest; 2.3.2.  Determine whether the property is under the control of the USAF; 2.3.3.  Determine that the item requested for lease is not excess to USAF requirements; 2.3.4.  Determine if the aircraft is assigned to a Reserve Component; 2.3.5.  Confirm compliance with AFI 16-402 paragraph 4.4, Change of Possession; 6 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 2.3.6.  Determine whether the property will be available during the proposed lease period for use  on  a  non-interference  basis.    The  property  availability  includes  any  parts  support considered  in  AFI  23-119,  Exchange,  Sale,  or  Temporary  Custody  of  Nonexcess  Personal Property; 2.3.7.  Determine if the intended use of the property is appropriate; 2.3.8.  Determine  whether  or  not  to  impose  any  necessary  limitations  or  reservations  on  its use; 2.3.9.  Determine  whether  or  not  the  proposed  consideration  (lease  fees)  is  adequate  (see paragraph 2.4 below); 2.3.10.  Determine whether the proposed lease would pose any technology disclosure issues, and whether there are security assistance considerations or any guidance from DoD relevant to the lease; and 2.3.11.  Determine if competitive procedures are required.  If a proposed lease involves only personal property, the lease term will exceed one year, or the fair market value of the lease interest  is  expected  to  exceed  $100,000,  competitive  procedures  must  be  used  to  select  the lessee;  unless  a  public  interest  will  be  served  as  a  result  of  the  lease  and  competitive procedures are unobtainable or not compatible with the public benefit served (refer 10 U.S.C. Section  2667(h)).    To  invite  competition,  the  Contracting  Officer  (CO)  shall  consult  with SAF/AQCK  on  the  use  of  appropriate  competition  procedures  prior  to  publishing  a  notice affording  potential  lessees  the  opportunity  to  propose  alternative  lease  projects.    When publishing the notice, Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 5.2 should be used as a guide; 2.3.12.  Determine  if  the  payment  (in  cash  or  in  kind)  by  the  lessee  of  consideration  is  in amount that is not less than the fair market value of the lease interest. 2.4.  Assessing Lease Fees.  The lessee normally pays the full costs agreed to under the terms of the lease. Fees include rent, reimbursement for any expense incurred by the U.S. Government in support  of  the  lease  and  other  costs  agreed  to  under  the  terms  of  the  lease.    Title  10  U.S.C., Section 2667 requires payment (in cash or in kind) by the lessee of consideration in an amount that  is  not  less  than  the  fair  market  value  of  the  lease  interest.    The  only  exception  to  this requirement is limited to real and personal property located at military installations to be closed or realigned under a base closure law, as provided in subsection 2667(g). 2.4.1.  Rent, including fees for depreciation and interest on investment, is payment in cash or in  kind  by  the  lessee  in  an  amount  not  less  than  the  fair  market  value  of  the  lease  interest.  The CO determines whether to assess rental fees on a daily, monthly, or yearly basis. 2.4.2.  Assess  flying-hour  fees  for  a  leased  aircraft  to  include,  among  other  things,  fuel, maintenance, and base support, depending on the leasing situation.  Do not assess these fees to the extent they are otherwise provided by the lessee.  A lessee who is authorized under the lease  to  obtain  spare  parts  from  the  supply  system  pays  the  appropriate  flying-hour  fees  or the cost of the parts. 2.4.3.  Rental fees are set  in  accordance with  DoD FMR 7000.14-R,  Vol. 11A, Ch. 4.   The Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  for  Cost  &  Economics  (SAF/FMC)  sets  flying-hour  fees  and rental  fees  for  aircraft,  as  well  as  rental  fees  for  other  leased  property  covered  by  this AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 7 instruction.  When actual costs are not known SAF/FMC may utilize a reasonable estimate.  When  the  specific  item  to  be  leased  is  identified,  fees  may  be  based  on  supplemental information  obtained  from  the  program  office.    The  supplemental  information  includes  the property's  acquisition  cost,  replacement  cost,  age,  cost  of  major  modifications,  and  salvage value.    SAF/FMC  may  address  or  assign  any  accounting  functions  necessary  to  ensure  the AF’s accounts are proper with respect to the lease as applicable. 2.4.4.  Assess rent for direct support by aircrew and maintenance personnel during the lease (see  paragraph  3.2.3.2)  and  costs  of  equipment  leases  or  for  items  of  equipment  the  lessee needs to support the major items of leased property.  For equipment items, the CO may use the clause in the FAR 52.245-9, “Use & Charges.” 2.4.5.  SAF/AQ may, in order to promote the national defense or serve the public interest in accordance with DoDI 7230.08, waive cash rental fees for leased equipment in support of air shows  or  trades  exhibitions  held  outside  the  United  States;  or  sales  demonstrations  to representatives  of  foreign  governments.    This  waiver  authority  only  applies  to  cash  rental fees for the leased property. Regardless  of whether or not  a cash rental  fee is  charged, fees for any and all expenses related to the support provided a lessee by the U.S. Government are not  waived  and  are  to  be  reimbursed  by  the  lessee.  Consistent  with  Section  1082  of  Public Law 102-484, as amended by Section 1031(d)(2) of Public Law 108-136, and DoDI 7230.08, for  leases  of  equipment  to  contractors  or  associations  for  display  or  demonstration  at international air shows or trade exhibitions, the lessee should agree to reimburse the Treasury of the United States for  the costs set  forth  at  DoDI 7230.08 paragraph 4(d).  Consideration consisting of reimbursement of all U.S. Government costs – whether or not a cash rental fee is charged – and the national defense or public interest to be served in these cases generally can support a determination and finding (D&F) of not less than fair market value of the lease interest. 2.4.6.  Property  leases  supporting  the  AF  and  National  Guard  Community  Relations programs may be approved and executed on a no-cash rental basis when: 2.4.6.1.  The  recipient  of  the  benefits  as  listed  in  DoDI  5410.19,  Public  Affairs Community Relations Policy Implementation, or in the case of the National Guard those recipients  authorized  by  law  (Title  32  U.S.C.,  Section  508),  are  engaged  in  nonprofit activity designed for the public safety, health, or welfare; 2.4.6.2.  Payment of the  full fee by  a state, local  government,  or nonprofit  group would not be in the interest of the program; and 2.4.6.3.  A local  AF official or National  Guard United States Property  & Fiscal  Official makes  a  written  determination  that  the  training  value,  goodwill  and/or  other  national defense or public interest  associated with  support of the Community Relations program constitutes  in-kind  consideration  that  is  not  less  than  the  fair  market  value  of  the  lease interest. 2.4.6.4.  The contracting officer shall determine that a prospective lessee is not debarred prior to conducting negotiations and prior to awarding a lease to the lessee. 8 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 Chapter 3 ELEMENTS OF LEASE AGREEMENTS 3.1.  Procedures.  AFMC  establishes  procedures  and  management  controls  for  creating  lease agreements  for  non-excess  aircraft  and  aircraft-related  equipment.    AFMC’s  procedures  and sample  aircraft  leases  can  be  found  on  Air  Force  Contracting  Central’s  SharePoint  site  under “Aircraft  leases  to  OEMs  and  other  entities.”    For  non-excess  personal  property  other  than aircraft  and  aircraft-related  equipment,  each  MAJCOM  establishes  their  own  procedures  and management controls for creating lease agreements. 3.2.  Elements  of  a  Lease  Agreement.  Leases  should  be  tailored  to  the  specific  requirement; however, the following elements should generally be captured in the lease agreement: 3.2.1.  Transfer, Maintenance, and Return of the Property. 3.2.1.1.  The  leased  property  shall  not  be  transferred,  encumbered,  or  used  for  other purposes  without  the  written  consent  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (Acquisition). 3.2.1.2.  The  lease  shall  specify  the  time  and  location  where  the  AF  will  transfer possession of the leased equipment to the lessee and back from the lessee and whether the lease  will  begin  and  end  with  the  transfer  of  possession  of  the  leased  equipment,  or whether it will begin at another specified time. 3.2.1.3.  The leased property will be released to the lessee only after the CO or authorized representative determines that the lessee has implemented procedures to ensure safe and proper storage, maintenance, and operation of the leased property. 3.2.1.4.  The  lease  will  specify  the  location  where  the  equipment  will  be  used  by  the lessee. 3.2.1.5.  The  lease  will  identify  any  unusual  lease  provisions,  such  as  permitting  the lessee to make modifications to the leased equipment. 3.2.1.6.  The  lessee  shall  maintain  the  leased  property  during  the  term  of  the  lease  in  a safe and serviceable condition according to prescribed AF standards or pay the full cost of any such maintenance if the U.S. Government agrees to accomplish the maintenance. 3.2.1.7.  The  leased  property  will  be  furnished  "as  is"  without  any  warranty,  express  or implied, as to serviceability, fitness for use, or other matters. 3.2.1.8.  The  lessee  shall  return  all  leased  property  to  the  AF,  at  such  place  as  is designated by the CO, in the same condition and configuration as when accepted, except for normal wear and tear.  If the AF determines that any of the leased property was not returned  in  such  condition,  or  has  not  been  maintained  according  to  prescribed  AF standards, the lessee shall reimburse the AF for the cost of returning such property to its proper condition, except for normal wear and tear. 3.2.2.  Treatment and Responsibility of Costs. 3.2.2.1.  The  lessee  shall  pay  the  U.S.  Government  all  rent,  costs,  and  fees  associated with  the  use  of  the  leased  property  while  it  is  under  lease  according  to  applicable AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 9 Department of Defense and AF directives and instructions and the applicable D&F.  No daily  rental  charge  will  be  assessed  for  lease  projects  executed  for  the  purposes  of participating  in  international  air  shows  held  outside  the  contiguous  U.S.  or  conducting sales  demonstrations  for  representatives  of  foreign  governments.    However,  the  lease should specify that the lessee shall pay for associated costs. 3.2.2.2.  The lessee shall be responsible for all costs relating to the leased property during the  term  of  the  lease,  including  but  not  limited  to  expenses  of  operation,  maintenance, display, demonstration, ferrying, transportation, support, and protection. 3.2.2.3.  The  lessee  shall  not,  directly  or  indirectly,  include  in  any  U.S.  Government contract any fees or costs paid by the lessee under the lease authorized hereby, except to the  extent  authorized  under  the  Federal  Acquisition  Regulations  (e.g.,  Foreign  Military Sales).    Costs  charged  to  the  U.S.  Government  for  the  leased  property  under  such contracts  will  not  exceed  the  lessee's  costs  under  the  lease.    The  U.S.  Government reserves the right to audit the lessee's books and records used to support any fees or costs that are charged directly or indirectly to the U.S. Government based on this lease. 3.2.2.4.  The  lessee  shall  assume  any  responsibility  imposed  by  other  U.S.  Government agencies,  state  and  local  agencies,  foreign  governments,  and  the  taxing  authorities thereof,  for  certification  and  registration  of  the  leased  property  and  for  payment  of  any taxes or other fees thereon. 3.2.3.  Non-interference Basis and Termination. 3.2.3.1.  The  leased  property  is  available  only  on  a  noninterference  basis  with  U.S. Government requirements. 3.2.3.2.  Support provided by the U.S. Government, if any, will be on a noninterference, reimbursable basis, including use of aircrews, support aircraft, equipment, and facilities.  Providing  and  charging  for  support  will  be  according  to  applicable  Department  of Defense and Department of the Air Force directives and instructions. 3.2.3.3.  During  the  term  of  the  lease,  the  lease  status  of  the  leased  property  may  be interrupted from time to time by the USAF to make the property available for other U.S. Government  activities  under  U.S.  Government  contracts  with  the  lessee.    During  such periods,  the  property  reverts  to  Government-Furnished  Property  status  under  the applicable U.S. Government contract. Any doubt as to the status of the leased property at any particular time will be resolved in favor of lease status, unless otherwise determined by the AF. 3.2.3.4.  The AF may revoke this lease at any time.  The lessee may terminate the lease at any time upon 15 days prior written notice to the CO.  If the lease is revoked by the AF or terminated by the lessee, the lessee shall be responsible for its residual responsibilities under the lease (to return leased property, to pay all fees or costs resulting from the lease, to release, defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the U.S. Government, et cetera).  Upon termination of the lease, the property is returned to the U.S. Government.  If the property is not returned to the U.S. Government as agreed upon by the terms of the lease, the CO should request, in writing, return of the property.  A notice of interest should be included in the demand letter.  Charging of interest is mandatory under Title 31, U.S.C., and Title 4,  Code  of  Federal  Regulations.    The  interest  on  the  property  is  calculated  on  a  “daily 10 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 rate” basis from  the date of the first  unsuccessful request  for the return of the property.  The CO should consult with local finance office for the actual rate of interest.  In long-term  leases,  the  CO  may  include  a  provision  in  the  lease  allowing  for  return  of  the property whenever the U.S. Government has a requirement for said property. 3.2.4.  Liability, Exportability, and Unauthorized Use. 3.2.4.1.  The  lessee  shall  release  the  AF,  including  a  release  from  all  consequential damages, and defend, indemnify, and hold the U.S. Government, its agents, officers, and employees harmless from any and all loss and  liability (whether in tort or contract) that might arise in connection with the lease because of: (a) injury or death of personnel of the U.S.  Government,  the  lessee,  or  third  parties;  and  (b)  damage  to  or  destruction  of property  of  the  lessee  or  third  parties,  and  leased  property,  support  equipment,  or  other property of the U.S. Government.  The lessee shall obtain insurance or provide for self-insurance adequate to cover all such liabilities. 3.2.4.2.  The  lessee  shall  assume  the  risk  of  loss,  damage,  or  destruction  of  the  leased property. The lessee’s risk should be covered by insurance or, with the CO’s prior written approval,  a  plan  for  self-insurance  on  the  depreciated  value  of  the  property.    Applies unless  the  undersigned  determines  that  the  U.S.  Government  agrees  to  assume  this  risk (e.g. when a U.S. Air Force pilot is the pilot-in-command of the leased aircraft). 3.2.4.3.  The lessee shall provide to the CO written evidence of the insurance or plan for self-insurance. 3.2.4.4.  The  lessee  shall  secure  from  the  Department  of  State  or  other  responsible  U.S. Government  agency  any  export  licenses  or  other  approvals  required  under  the  Arms Export  Control  Act  (22  U.S.C.  Section  2751  et  seq.)  or  other  U.S.  law  or  regulations before using the leased property in connection with the provision of articles or services to a  foreign  government  or  other  foreign  person.    The  lessee  shall  provide  a  copy  of  said licenses to the CO. 3.2.4.5.  The lessee shall not use any government equipment contrary to international law including the law of armed conflict, domestic law, or Department of Defense and USAF policies  relating  to,  or  more  restrictive  than,  any  domestic  law,  and  the  law  of  armed conflict.  Furthermore,  the  lessee  shall  not  use  any  government  equipment  in  inherently military activities such as combat or combat support.  This  clause does not  prohibit the inherent right of self-defense. 3.2.4.6.  The  lessee  shall  be  liable  for  any  late  returns  of  leased  equipment.    The  daily amount  of  the  late  fee  will  be  established  by  the  CO  in  the  lease  agreement  to  ensure return of all leased property in the event of default or upon completion or termination of the  lease.    NOTE:  the  late  fees  should  normally  be  higher  than  the  rental  rate  due  to mission impact. 3.2.5.  Aircraft-specific (as applicable). 3.2.5.1.  The  lease  will  identify  whether  or  not  U.S.  Government  personnel  will  be pilots/aircrew  members  in  command  and/or  provide  maintenance/support  during  flights or operators of the leased equipment.  Applies in the case of leased aircraft. AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 11 3.2.5.2.  The  lessee  shall  limit  operation  and  maintenance  of  the  leased  property  to qualified  employees  of  lessee  and  shall  ensure,  if  applicable,  all  lessee  flight crewmembers are qualified and maintain currency and proficiency according to AFI 10-220(I),  Contractor  Flight  and  Ground  Operations.    In  addition,  the  lessee  shall  ensure that no civilian visitor is at the controls of the aircraft during any orientation flight, unless specifically approved by the AF. 3.2.5.3.  The lessee shall obtain approval in accordance with DoDI 7230.08,  Leases and Demonstrations  of  DoD  Equipment  and  AFI  11‐ 401,  Aviation  Management  Table  1.1 when similar Air Force Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CV) approved terms are not included in the  lease  agreement  before  any  demonstration,  orientation,  or  evaluation  flights  for representatives of foreign governments.  Applies only in leases of aircraft contemplating this possibility. 3.2.5.4.  For  orientation  flights,  FMS  demonstrations,  and  flights  other  than  airshow participation, the lessee shall submit all planned flight profiles to the MAJCOM A3 that provides the leased aircraft to obtain the required approval.  Planned flight profiles shall, to  the maximum  extent practicable, follow the requirements contained in Attachment 3.  The  lease  shall  include  the  approved  flight  profiles  and  the  statement:    The  contractor shall not deviate from the approved plan(s) except for flight safety purposes. 3.2.5.5.  A lessee  who proposes to  fly leased aircraft at  an air show shall  prepare an  air show  participation  plan  for  approval  by  the  AF.  The  plan  shall  cover  all  information listed in the sample Air Show Participation Plan (Attachment 3) and be incorporated into the lease (e.g. – attachment thereto).  AF approval of, or involvement in, such a plan shall not  diminish  the  lessee's  assumption  of  risk  of  loss  and  liability  in  connection  with  the lease.  Applies in all leases contemplating air show flights of leased aircraft.  3.2.5.6.  Leases  that  authorize  aerial  demonstrations  at  an  air  show  require  the  lessee  to obtain  prior  Director  of  Current  Operations,  Headquarters  US  Air  Force  (AF/A3O) approval  of  air  show  participation  plans,  including  demonstration  flight  profiles  in accordance with AFI 11-209, Aerial Event Policy and Procedures (see Attachment 3 of this  AFI,  Air  Show  Participation  Plan,  for  required  items).    The  leasing  office  should identify  the  U.S.  Government  Contracting  Officer’s  Representative  (COR),  brief  the monitor on approvals granted the lessee and any limitations that may have been imposed for a particular air show, and provide copies of pertinent documents.  In accordance with DoDI 7230.08, direct DoD participation in international airshows and trade exhibitions is only authorized if a determination is made by the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (USD(P)) that such participation is in the national security interests of the United States. 3.2.5.7.  The  lessee  shall  obtain  prior  approval  for  all  orientation  flights,  to  include  but not  limited  to,  flights  involving  foreign  nationals  or  for  dignitaries,  including  members  of  the  Congress  and  representatives  of  the  U.S.  news  media  according  to  AFI  11‐ 401, Aviation  Management,  paragraph  1.9.4.7  and  Table  1.1.    This  requirement  applies regardless of which MAJCOM provides the leased aircraft or the location of the flights. In  such  cases,  the  lessee  shall  submit  its  request  to  the  CO  and  the  CO  will  coordinate with the MAJCOM A3 which is providing the aircraft to obtain the required approval. 3.2.5.8.  The lease will require the lessee to obtain AF approval for each project utilizing the leased aircraft even if the individual projects are within the scope of intended use as 12 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 described in the lease.  Used rarely, but may be used if desired to maintain strict control over use of leased aircraft. AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 13 Chapter 4 APPROVAL AND REPORTING PROCESS 4.1.  Approval Process. 4.1.1.  Approval  Authority.    The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Acquisition (SAF/AQ) may authorize lease of non-excess USAF aircraft, aircraft-related equipment and other  personal  property,  when  SAF/AQ  considers  it  advantageous  for  the  United  States, under such terms and conditions as SAF/AQ considers will promote the national defense or be  in  the  public  interest.  SAF/AQ  will  indicate  approval  to  lease  non-excess  personal property  by  signing  a  written  Determination  and  Findings  (D&F)  prepared  for  each  lease request  as  described  by  this  instruction.    The  D&F  documents  will  conform  to  the requirements of law, DoD directives, and this instruction.  Authority to waive or deviate from the  provisions  of  this  instruction  or  to  delegate  leasing  authority  rests  with  SAF/AQ.  Although SAF/AQ exercises approval authority to lease non-excess personal property, other officials exercise related approval authority as  described in this instruction (e.g. approval to export equipment to foreign countries, approval for direct DoD participation at international airshows). 4.1.2.  The CO for, and  with  the assistance of, the requirement activity  will  prepare  a D&F (see  sample  at  Attachment  2)  to  lease  aircraft  and  related  equipment  and  forward  it  with supporting information to SAF/AQCK for staffing and SAF/AQ approval.  SAF/AQCK will ensure SAF/GCQ coordination is obtained and other SAF offices as needed (e.g. SAF/GCI, SAF/IAG, et cetera).  Supporting information includes, but is not limited to: 4.1.2.1.  Lease request; 4.1.2.2.  Fee analysis; 4.1.2.3.  Lease agreement; 4.1.2.4.  Proof of insurance; 4.1.2.5.  Results of synopsis (if applicable); and 4.1.2.6.  MAJCOM legal review. 4.1.3.  When  applicable,  the  CO  concurrently  forwards  the  prospective  lessee's  Air  Show Participation  Plan,  including  demonstration  flight  profiles,  to  the  Director  of  Current Operations,  Headquarters  U.S.  Air  Force  (AF/A3O)  for  staffing  and  approval.  SAF/AQCK can assist in securing this approval. 4.1.4.  If leasing information technology (IT) equipment, ensure that the equipment has been sanitized by the local communications support provider prior to release. 4.2.  Execution, Distribution, and Reporting.  After attaining SAF/AQ approval, the CO will: 4.2.1.  Execute  the  lease  and  forward  a  signed  copy  to  SAF/AQCK  and  the  applicable MAJCOM for their records; 4.2.2.  Forward all international leases for aircraft and related equipment to the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (International Affairs) Action Group (SAF/IAG); and 14 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 4.2.3.  Notify  congressional  defense  committees  IAW  the  requirements  of  Title  10  U.S.C., Section 2667(d)(3) for each waiver under Section 2667(d)(2). 4.2.4.  Within  90  days  after  the  end  of  an  international  trade  show  or  exhibition,  SAF/IAG provides to Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), a list of USAF equipment leased for  the  event.  The  total  cost  charged  to  training  budgets  for  transportation  of  equipment  to and from the event is provided to DSCA by the appropriate Combatant Command. AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 15 Chapter 5 ADMINISTERING THE LEASE 5.1.  Procedures. 5.1.1.  Payments.    The  CO  should  instruct  the  lessee  and  appropriate  Defense  Finance  and Accounting Service (DFAS) Office on handling lessee money payments.  The payment office will deposit lease payments to an account designated by DFAS. 5.1.2.  Reimbursements.    The  payment  office  credits  payments  for  flying-hour  fees  and reimbursements  received  for  support  or  services  provided  by  the  U.S.  Government,  to  the appropriations of the activities to which the leased property is assigned or which provided the support  or  service.    The  payment  office  will  reimburse  the  supply  system  with  lessee payments for items obtained from the supply system. 5.1.3.  In-Kind Rental.  The lessee shall make in-kind rental payments in accordance with the terms of the lease and instructions from the CO. 5.2.  Inspection Responsibilities.  The CO should ensure that: 5.2.1.  Contract  administration  personnel  or  others  are  adequately  instructed  to  conduct appropriate oversight during lease performance, as required; and 5.2.2.  The activity receiving the property after completion of the lease adequately inspects it to see that the lessee maintained the leased property according to USAF standards. 5.3.  Contract  Administration  Office.  After  negotiation,  the  CO  delegates  the  lease  to  the cognizant  contract  administration  office  (CAO)  for  administration.    The  CAO  ensures  that  the lessee  complies  with  all  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  lease,  including  reimbursement  to  the U.S.  Government  for  cost  of  any  support  the  lessee  receives.    It  ensures  that  all  lessee  flight crewmembers  are qualified and maintain  currency  and proficiency  according to  AFI 10-220(I). In addition, the CAO ensures the lessee: 5.3.1.  Obtains necessary approvals; 5.3.2.  Follows maintenance requirements; 5.3.3.  Keeps records of property use as a basis for rental fees; 5.3.4.  Pays rental and other fees according to the lease agreement; and 5.3.5.  Returns the leased property as directed by the CO.  DARLENE J. COSTELLO Principal Deputy, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition & Logistics) 16 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 10-220(I), Contractor Flight and Ground Operations, 9 April 2014 AFI 11-209, Aerial Event Policy and Procedures, 4 May 2006 AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, Certified current 9 January 2013 AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and Termination, 30 May 2013 AFI 23-119, Exchange, Sale, or Temporary Custody of Nonexcess Personal Property, 5 June 2001 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 December 2006 DoDI 3200.18, Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test Facility Base, 1 February 2010 DoDI 5535.11, Availability of Samples, Drawings, Information, Equipment, Materials, and Certain Services to Non-DoD Persons and Entities, 12 March 2012 DoDI 7230.08, Leases and Demonstrations of DoD Equipment, 2 January 2009 DoDI 5410.19, Public Affairs Community Relations Policy Implementation, 13 November 2001 DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (FMR), Vol. 11A, “Reimbursable Operations Policy,” Chapter 4, “User Fees”, July 2016 DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (FMR), Vol. 12, “Special Accounts, Funds and Programs,” Chapter 14, “Transferring, Disposing, and Leasing of Real Property and Personal Property”, June 2009 Section 1082 of Public Law 102-484, as amended by Section 1031(d)(2) of Public Law 108-136 Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2667, Leases: Non-Excess Property of Military Departments and Defense Agencies Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2681, Use of Test and Evaluation Installations by Commercial Entities Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2539b, Availability of Samples, Drawings, Information, Equipment, Materials, and Certain Services Title 10 U.S.C., Chapter 39, Arms Export Control Title 32 U.S.C., Section 508, Assistance for Certain Youth and Charitable Organizations Title 40 U.S.C., Section 102, Definitions AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 17 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command ANG—Air National Guard CAO—Contract Administration Office D&F—Determination and Findings DOD—Department of Defense DODI—Department of Defense Instruction DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation FMR—Financial Management Regulation HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive MAJCOM—Major Command MRTFB—Major Range and Test Facility Bases OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility USC—United States Code USAF—United States Air Force Terms Non-excess personal property—means personal property under the control of a federal agency, which is required to meet the agency's needs or responsibilities, as determined by the head of the agency. Excess personal property—means personal property under the control of a federal agency that the head of the agency determines is not required to meet the agency's needs or responsibilities. Lease—(in the context of this instruction) is an agreement by the owner (the lessor) to provide non-excess  personal  property  to  another  party  (the  lessee)  who  will  use  the  property  for compensation  or  hire  purposes.    A  lease  gives  exclusive  possession  of  the  property  for  a specified  term  in  return  for  rent  or  other  consideration  paid  to  the  owner.  A  lease  is  not  an agreement for sale of the property.  The lease shall provide for payment (in cash or in kind) by the lease IAW 10 USC 2667(b). 18 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 Personal property—is any property not considered real property. Real  property—means  land,  buildings,  structures,  utility  systems,  improvements,  and appurtenances.    Includes  equipment  attached  to  and  part  of  buildings  and  structures,  such  as heating systems, but not movable equipment, such as plant equipment.  AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 19 Attachment 2 SAMPLE SECRETARIAL DETERMINATION AND FINDING (D&F) DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE DETERMINATION AND FINDINGS  AUTHORITY TO LEASE NON-EXCESS AIR FORCE PROPERTY  Pursuant to Section 2667 of Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.) and the authority delegated to me by the Secretary of the Air Force, in accordance with Headquarters U.S. Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive 1-10, A1.10, I have reviewed the request to have the Department of the Air Force lease _________________________ [specify property] to _____________________ [insert name of non-Government entity] from the period _________ to ________ [insert term of lease].  Upon the basis of the following findings and determination, I hereby authorize the Department of the Air Force to enter into a leasing agreement under the terms consistent with the findings below. FINDINGS: 1.  The Department of the Air Force will issue the lease in accordance with the requirements of 10 U.S.C. § 2667, Department of Defense Instruction 7230.08, Air Force Instruction 64-103, and all other applicable laws and regulations.  2.  The property to be leased is [insert detailed description of the property to be leased].  The property to be leased is under the control of the Department of the Air Force and is not, for the term under this lease, needed for public use.  Additionally, the leased property is not excess property as defined by Title 40, U.S.C., Section 102 [Provide a brief statement explaining why the leased property is not excess property as defined by 40 U.S.C. §102]. 3.  The purpose of the lease shall be [insert detailed description of the lessee’s intended use of the leased property]. 4.  The lease period will be for a term of ___________ [Insert term of lease.]  Accordingly, the term of the lease will not be for a term of more than five years.  [Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 2667(b)(1), the term of the lease may not be for more than five years unless the Secretary concerned determines that a lease for a longer period will promote the national defense or be in the public interest.  Thus, if the term of the lease is for a period longer than five years, delete the second sentence of the above paragraph and provide an explanation why the longer period is necessary to promote the national defense or is in public interest]. 5.  The [cash rent and other consideration] is not less than the fair market value of the lease interest.  [Describe the type of payment (in cash or in kind) that will be provided by the lessee and provide sufficient details/analysis why the consideration is not less than fair market value. Include supporting documentation if applicable]. [If the proposed lease entails consideration in an amount less than fair market value, replace the main sentence of this paragraph with the following: “The consideration for this lease has been determined to be less than the fair market value of the lease interest; however, it has been determined that (insert the basis for the exception to the statutory requirement for receipt of consideration in an amount not less than the fair market value of the lease interest and provide enough detail to support the use of such exception)]. 20 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 6. Competitive procedures as set forth in 10 U.S.C. § 2667(h)(1) [will/will not] be utilized.  [Provide a brief description of the competition procedures that will be used and ensure they are documented in the contract file]. [If competitive procedures will not be utilized, state whether the conditions for the exception to competition as set forth in 10 U.S.C. § 2667(h)(2) have been met.  If the conditions set forth in 10 U.S.C. § 2667(h)(2) have been met, explain how each condition has been met (i.e., (1) how will the public interest be served as a result of the lease and (2) how is the use of competitive procedures unobtainable or not compatible with the public benefit served). If competitive procedures are used, ensure competitive procedures are appropriately documented in the contract file.] 7.  The lease is advantageous to the Department of the Air Force because [include a description of the benefits and advantages of this lease agreement pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 2667(a)]. DETERMINATION: Based on the findings above and in accordance with 10 U.S.C. § 2667, I hereby determine: 1.  The property to be leased is under the control of the Department of the Air Force; that the leased property is not, for the term of the lease, needed for public use; and that the leased property is not excess property as defined by Title 40, U.S.C., Section 102; 2.  The use of competition procedures [is/is not] applicable in accordance with [if competitive procedures are used, insert the following: 10 U.S.C. § 2667(h)(1).  If competitive procedures are not used, insert the following: 10 U.S.C. § 2667(h)(2)]; 3.  The cash rent and/or other consideration has been determined to be not less than the fair market value of the lease interest.  [If the proposed lease entails consideration in an amount less than fair market value, replace the aforementioned sentence with the following: The consideration for this lease has been determined to be less than the fair market value of the lease interest; however, it has been determined that (insert the basis for the exception to the statutory requirement for receipt of consideration in an amount not less than the fair market value of the lease interest)]; 4.  The lease will not exceed a period of time believed to be necessary to prepare for and accomplish the purposes for which the property is being leased, and to return the leased property; and 5.  The above-described lease of such property is advantageous to the United States and includes such terms that will promote the national defense or to be in the public interest.   Therefore, I hereby authorize the Director for Contracting, [name of the organization], or designated contracting officer to execute this lease according to this Determination which shall conform to the findings specified above.   __________   __________________________________________________   Date  Signature of Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition)    AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 21 Attachment 3 AIR SHOW PARTICIPATION PLAN A3.1.  Prior  to  any  flight  performed  for  demonstration,  exhibition,  practice,  or  evaluation purposes  at  a  scheduled  air  show  as  authorized  elsewhere  in  this  lease,  the  lessee  shall  obtain, through  the  Contracting  Officer,  the  approval  of  the  Director  of  Current  Operations  (AF/A3O) for an Air Show Participation Plan covering the following: A3.1.1.  Detailed schedule of planned use of the leased aircraft; A3.1.2.  The  names  and  qualifications  of  the  pilots  who  are  scheduled  to  fly  the  aircraft  in practice, deployment or redeployment, and air show flights.  This includes any civilian visitor anticipated to be at the controls of the aircraft during orientation flights; A3.1.3.  Specific  information  on  the  qualifications  of  other  crewmembers  who  may  be needed; A3.1.4.  The  names,  qualifications,  and  exact  duties  of  contractor  supervisors  who  may  in any way manage and control the AF while it is leased; A3.1.5.  The intended flight profiles planned for: A3.1.5.1.  Favorable weather conditions (specify favorable weather conditions for subject aircraft); A3.1.5.2.  Weather conditions less than favorable but above the air show minimums, AF flight  rules,  and  the  aircraft  handbook  (technical  order)  limitations;  include  request  for waiver of aircraft weather minimums, if applicable; and A3.1.5.3.  Alternate modified profiles for both weather conditions that would be flown if air show authorities limit flight time due to scheduling problems. A3.1.6.  Provisions  for  ensuring  adequate  preflight  rest  for  the  pilot  (or  pilots)  and  other crewmembers.   This  discussion includes how the flight  crews (pilots) will be isolated  from potential marketing or other possible pressures that may be expected; A3.1.7.  Specific  schedule  and  attendees  at  preflight  planning,  preflight  briefings,  and  post flight debriefings; A3.1.8.  Means  of  providing  a  visual  record  of  all  practice  flights  and  air  show demonstrations; A3.1.9.  Means  of  providing  maximum  flight  data  recorder  coverage  (if  subject  aircraft  is normally  equipped  with  a  flight  data  recorder)  of  all  practice  flights  and  air  show  flight demonstrations; A3.1.10.  Provisions for ensuring the pilot who flies the aircraft wears suitable flight clothing for maneuvers (such as anti-G suit); A3.1.11.  Specifics on each nonstandard configuration of the leased aircraft; and A3.1.12.  A list  of each item  of equipment  or stores the  Lessee intends to incorporate in  or use  to  support  the  leased  aircraft,  other  than  USAF  standard  equipment  or  approved  stores list. 22 AFI64-103  14 MARCH 2017 A3.2.  Lessee's  initial  proposal  and  any  revised  proposals  for  inclusion  in  the  Air  Show Participation Plan shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer. A3.3.  The Lessee shall comply with the provisions of the approved Air Show Participation Plan for  all  air  show  demonstrations,  exhibition,  and  evaluation  flights  performed  with  the  leased property  during  the  term  of  this  lease  at,  or  in  the  general  vicinity  of,  the  air  show  and  for  all practice and pilot qualification flights performed during the term of this lease in preparation for such demonstration, exhibition, or evaluation. A3.4.  The Lessee shall permit the COR or a delegate, as appointed by the U.S. Government for this lease, to monitor air show participation under this lease.  The COR shall have access to the leased  aircraft  and  maintenance  and  staging  areas  during  the  entire  period  of  air  show participation  and  during  all  periods  of  practice  or  qualification  for  air  show  participation  as authorized under this lease. A3.5.  The COR shall be considered an  element  of AF support, whose costs are charged to  the Lessee as lease support costs. A3.6.  The Lessee shall submit to the Contracting Officer, within 30 days after the completion of the air show, a lease completion report explaining any problems encountered in aircraft practice and participation flights and recommending changes in procedures to improve the safety of AF aircraft  leased  for  air  show  participation  in  the  future.    The  Lessee  shall  also,  at  the  written request of the Contracting Officer and at no cost to the U.S. Government under the lease, provide to  the U.S.  Government  two copies of all visual records and  flight  recorder data of all practice flights and air show demonstrations as called for above. A3.7.  The Lessee shall advise the Contracting Officer if it plans to participate in static displays or flights demonstrations at the air show.  The COR will designate a time and place for Lessee personnel  to  receive  a  cautionary  briefing  on  the  military  security  requirements  and  other sensitive areas related to the leased aircraft and equipment. A3.8.  The  following  language  shall  be  included  in  the  plan:  “It  is  mutually  understood  and agreed that the sole purpose of this plan is  to  give the  U.S.  Government  full knowledge of the intended use of the leased property and an opportunity to observe the Lessee's compliance with its  proposed  plan.    The  Lessee  acknowledges  and  agrees  that  the  U.S.  Government  makes  no warranty that the approved plan is safe and that the U.S. Government assumes no risk of loss or liability to third parties that may arise even if the Lessee adheres to the approved plan.  This plan creates no exceptions to the Lessee's obligations to assume risk of loss and third party liability, including obtaining insurance, as set out fully elsewhere in this lease.”  