BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 71-101 VOLUME 1 8 OCTOBER 2015 Certified Current On 17 December 2015Special Investigations CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:  SAF/IGX Supersedes:  AFI 71-101V1, 4 Feb 2015 Certified by: SAF/IGX (Col Jeff H. Hurlbert) Pages: 38 This  instruction  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  71-1,  Criminal  Investigations and Counterintelligence; Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 2000.26, Suspicious Activity Reporting  (SAR),  DoDI  5210.91,  Polygraph  and  Credibility  Assessment  (PCA)  Procedures; DoDI  5505.02,  Criminal  Investigations  of  Fraud  Offenses;  DoDI  5505.03,  Initiation  of Investigations  by  Defense  Criminal  Investigative  Organizations;  DoDI  5505.07,  Titling  and Indexing of Subjects of  Criminal Investigations in the Department of Defense; DoDI 5505.08, Military  Criminal  Investigative  Organizations  (MCIO)  and  Other  DoD  Law  Enforcement Organizations Investigations of Adult, Private, Consensual Sexual Misconduct; DoDI 5505.10, Criminal  Investigations  of  Noncombat  Deaths;  DoDI  5505.11,  Fingerprint  Card  and  Final Disposition  Report  Submission  Requirements;  DoDI  5505.14,  Deoxyribonucleic  Acid  (DNA) Collection  Requirements for  Criminal  Investigations;  DoDI  5505.15,  DoD  Contractor Disclosure  Program;  DoDI  5505.16,  Criminal  Investigations  by  Personnel  Who  Are  Not Assigned  to  a  Defense  Criminal  Investigative  Organization;  DoDI  5505.18,  Investigation  of Adult  Sexual  Assault  in  the  Department  of  Defense;  DoDI  5400.15,  Guidance  on  Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions; DoDI 5525.07, Implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between the Departments of Justice (DoJ) and Defense Relating to the Investigation  and  Prosecution  of  Certain  Crimes;  DoDI  5505.19,  Establishment  of  Special Victim  Investigation  and  Prosecution  (SVIP)  Capability  within the  Military  Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIOs); and Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 14-007, Sexual Assault Incident Response Oversight (SAIRO) Report.  It applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR) Units, the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) performing  an  Air  Force  assigned  mission.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number 2 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for non-tiered compliance items.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed  to  SAF/IGX  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.    Refer  recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through Major Command  (MAJCOM)  publications/forms  managers.    This  publication  requires  the  collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974.  The authority to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication is Title 5 United States Code Section 552a (5 USC § 552a), Records maintained on individuals.  Forms affected by the PA have  an  appropriate  PA  statement.    System  of  Records  Notice  (SORN)  F071  AF  OSI  D, Investigative Information Management System  (I2MS), F071 AF OSI E, Air Force Badge and Credentials,  and  F071  AF  OSI  F,  Investigative  Applicant  Processing  Records,  applies  and  is available  online  at:  http://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.    Ensure  that  all  records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES The  publication  has  been  revised.    This  rewrite  of  AFI  71-101  Volume  1  includes  the publications  of  DoDI  5505.19,  Establishment  of  Special  Victim  Investigation  and  Prosecution (SVIP)  Capability  within  the  Military  Criminal  Investigative  Organizations  (MCIOs),  which rescinded  Directive-type  Memorandum  (DTM)  14-002,  The  Establishment  of  Special  Victim Capability (SVC) Within the Military Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIO), Directive-Type  Memorandum  (DTM)  14-007,  Sexual  Assault  Incident  Response  Oversight  (SAIRO) Report;  it  also  adds  new  guidance  on  releasing  ROIs  to  special  victims’  counsel,  updates  the investigative matrix in attachment 2, and corrects references. Chapter 1— RESPONSIBILITIES 1.1. 1.2. 1.3. 1.4. 1.5. 1.6.  The Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Commander. .................   USAF Special Investigations Academy (USAFSIA)..............................................   AFOSI Investigation Collections Operations Nexus (ICON). ................................   AFOSI Field Investigative Units. ...........................................................................   Commanders/Directors. ..........................................................................................   Installation Defense Force Commander (DFC). .....................................................  5 5 5 5 5 6 7 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 Chapter 2— INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM 2.1. 2.2. 2.3. 2.4. 2.5. 2.6. 2.7. 2.8. 2.9.  Determining AFOSI, Security Forces, and Conservation Law Enforcement Officials Spheres of Influence. ................................................................................   Accreditation. ..........................................................................................................   Masking Rank. ........................................................................................................   Using Emergency and Extraordinary Expense Funds (E-Funds). ..........................   Defense Central Index of Investigations (DCII). ....................................................   Fingerprints. ............................................................................................................   Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Samples. ...............................................................   Department of Justice (DoJ) Referrals. ...................................................................   Law Enforcement Collection of Information on Non-DoD US Persons. ...............  2.10.  AFOSI and SJA Collaboration................................................................................  2.11.  Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs). ......................................................................  2.12.  Enemy Prisoner of War (EPW)/Detainee Information. ..........................................  2.13.  Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions. ................................................  2.14.  Setting up Joint Drug Enforcement Teams (JDETs). .............................................  2.15.  Investigation of Illegal Drug Use and Distribution. ................................................  2.16.  Death Investigations of Active Duty Military Members. .......................................  2.17.  Adultery, Fraternization, and Sexual Harassment. .................................................  2.18.  Setting up Joint Sexual Assault Investigative Teams (JSAT). ................................  2.19.  Sexual Assaults. ......................................................................................................  2.20.  Investigating Fraud Offenses. .................................................................................  2.21.  Contractor Disclosure Program. ..............................................................................  2.22.  Environmental Crime. .............................................................................................  2.23.  Crimes that Involve Air Force Computer Systems. ................................................  2.24.  Processing Requests to Intercept Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications for Law Enforcement Purposes. ....................................................................................  3 8 8 8 9 10 10 10 10 11 11 11 12 12 12 13 13 13 14 14 15 15 15 15 15 16 4 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 2.25.  Firearms Tracing in Connection with Criminal Investigations. ..............................  2.26.  Law Enforcement Defense Data Exchange (LE D-DEx). ......................................  2.27.  Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability. .........................  2.28.  Sexual Assault Incident Response Oversight (SAIRO) Report. .............................  2.29.  Restricted Reporting. ..............................................................................................  Chapter 3— SPECIALIZED INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES 3.1.  Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Techniques: ...................................  Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 2— AFOSI AND SECURITY FORCES INVESTIGATIVE MATRIX Attachment 3— AFOSI AND CONSERVATION LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM INVESTIGATIVE MATRIX 16 16 16 16 17 18 18 21 30 38 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 5 Chapter 1 RESPONSIBILITIES 1.1.  The  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  (AFOSI)  Commander.  The  AFOSI Commander derives his or her criminal investigative authority directly from the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) and has the independent authority within the Air Force to initiate criminal investigations.    The  Commander,  AFOSI  accredits  special  agents,  and  others  performing  law enforcement and counterintelligence operations in support of the AFOSI mission, and is the sole Air Force issuing authority for AFOSI badges and credentials.  Additionally, the Commander, AFOSI is the sole decision authority on special agent decertification.  The commander assesses performance and provides guidance for all AFOSI units; provides program oversight for the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3); and manages the Air Force polygraph program. 1.2.  USAF  Special  Investigations  Academy  (USAFSIA).  USAFSIA  provides  training  to  all special agents. 1.2.1.  The USAFSIA investigative curriculum should include training in both the basic and advanced  special  investigator  courses  on  conducting  death  investigations  and  on  the execution of the Family Liaison Program described in paragraph 2.16.1. 1.2.2.  Special  Agents  will  receive  proper  training  in  sexual  assault  matters  and  related training IAW DoDI 5505.19, Establishment of Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP)  Capability  within  the  Military  Criminal  Investigative  Organizations  (MCIOs),  and DoDI 5505.18, Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense. (T-0) 1.2.3.  DC3’s  Defense  Cyber  Investigations  Training  Academy  (DCITA)  provides  cyber technical training for AFOSI personnel and should be the first cyber training option.  1.3.  AFOSI  Investigation  Collections  Operations  Nexus  (ICON).  AFOSI  ICON  is  the  Air Force's  sole  investigative  and  counterintelligence/counterterrorism  (CI/CT)  threat-reporting integration mechanism.  The AFOSI ICON provides timely investigative information and threat reporting data to the AFOSI/CC and other senior Air Force and DoD leaders.  The AFOSI ICON is  the  sole  Air  Force  office  responsible  for  the  fusion  of  all  AFOSI  originated  criminal intelligence  with  other  intelligence,  and  any  subsequent  sharing  within  and  outside  of  DoD, consistent with DoDI 5525.18, Law Enforcement Criminal Intelligence (CRIMINT) in DoD.  The AFOSI  ICON  is  organized  by  regional  and  functional  desks,  which  receive  and  synchronize information  from  AFOSI  field  units  and  other  US  Government  agencies.    The  AFOSI  ICON manages  AFOSI's  Global  Watch  (AFOSI  ICON/ICW),  which  receives  up-channel  reporting from AFOSI field units.  The Global Watch also coordinates with other Air Force, DoD, and US Government watches.  The AFOSI ICON will coordinate investigative and CI/CT activities, as necessary, with Air Force human intelligence (HUMINT) activities. (T-2)  Finally, the AFOSI ICON  is  a  central  clearinghouse  for  data  gleaned  from  AFOSI’s  liaison  officers  assigned  to partner  agencies  in  the  US  Government,  such  as  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  (FBI), Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and National Security Agency (NSA). 1.4.  AFOSI  Field  Investigative  Units.  AFOSI  field  units  (Squadrons,  Detachments,  and Operating Locations) are responsible to: 6 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 1.4.1.  Conduct  liaison  with  federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  nation  law  enforcement, counterintelligence  and  security  agencies.    In  accordance  with  AFPD  71-1,  Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, AFOSI is the sole Air Force agency responsible for conducting liaison for matters falling within the AFOSI mission. (T-1) 1.4.2.  Promptly  notify  action  authorities  in  writing  each  time  an  investigation  is  initiated, unless there is a need to maintain strict security controls over an investigative operation.  In such cases, action authorities will be briefed and provided written notification when there is no longer a need to maintain strict operational security. (T-1) 1.4.3.  Provide  a  timely  report  of  investigation  (ROI)  to  the  action  authority  having responsibility to take judicial, non-judicial, and administrative actions through ROI findings, robust litigation preparation, and timely resolution of military justice. (T-1) 1.4.4.  Operate  a  Confidential  Informant  Program  consisting  of  people  who  confidentially provide  vital  information  for  initiating  or  resolving  criminal  or  counterintelligence investigations. (T-1) 1.4.4.1.  Brief  installation  commanders  on  this  program  each  time  a  new  installation commander is assigned. (T-1) 1.5.  Commanders/Directors.  Commanders/Directors  at  all  levels  shall  ensure  that  criminal allegations or suspected  criminal allegations involving persons  affiliated  with the DoD or any property  or  programs  under  their  control  or  authority  are  referred  to  the  appropriate  Military Criminal Investigative Organization (MCIO), i.e. AFOSI, or law enforcement organization, i.e. Security  Forces.  (T-1)    Action  authorities,  or  designees,  will  not  order  or  permit  any  type  of commander  directed  investigation  or  inquiry  when  there  is  an  ongoing  AFOSI  investigation without coordinating with AFOSI and the servicing Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). (T-2)  Action authorities are also responsible to: 1.5.1.  Provide ROIs only to authorized persons whose official duties require access. (T-1) 1.5.2.  Safeguard ROIs in security file containers/cabinets, safes, vaults, and locked cabinets or rooms IAW DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, and AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. (T-1) 1.5.2.1.  Do not release an ROI to non-Air Force officials.  Refer all such requests to the servicing AFOSI field unit.  See paragraph 1.5.8 regarding releases to defense attorneys. (T-1) 1.5.2.2.  Send all Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) requests for AFOSI ROIs to the  AFOSI Office of  Information Release  at HQ AFOSI/XILI, 27130 Telegraph Rd, Quantico, VA 22134, Attn: FOIA Section. FOIA requests may also be e-mailed to: AFOSIHQXIL-OIARecordsSearchRequests@us.af.mil. (T-1) 1.5.3.  Maintain classified ROIs according to AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program, and destroy them IAW the RDS. (T-1) 1.5.4.  Destroy "For Official Use Only" ROIs IAW AFRIMS. (T-1) 1.5.5.  Notify the local accounting and finance office for recoupment actions, if appropriate. 1.5.5.  Notify the local accounting and finance office for recoupment actions, if appropriate.  (T-1)AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 7 1.5.6.  Promptly report to AFOSI all actions taken as a result of an investigation. (T-1) 1.5.7.  Ensure that Public Affairs officials coordinate with HQ AFOSI/PA prior to releasing any information to the public about an AFOSI investigation. (T-1) 1.5.8.  Release  ROIs  to  military  and  civilian  defense  attorneys  and  respondent’s  counsel through the servicing legal office.  ROIs or any portions of ROIs should only be released to defense  counsel  or  respondent’s  counsel  through  the  servicing  legal  office  pursuant  to relevant  authorities  (e.g.,  United  States  Constitution,  5th  Amendment;  Rules  for  Courts-Martial  701,  Discovery,  and  703,  Protection  of  Witnesses  and  Evidence;  AFI  51-201, Administration  of  Military  Justice;  AFI  51-202,  Nonjudicial  Punishment;  AFI  36-3206, Administrative  Discharge  Procedures for  Commissioned  Officers;  AFI  36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen).  The servicing legal office will consider redacting an ROI  or  any  portion  of  an  ROI  when  PA  or  other  concerns  (e.g.,  confidential  source information,  sensitive  investigative  techniques,  and  information  concerning  ongoing investigations) warrant redaction.  The servicing legal office will coordinate the release of an ROI  or  any  portion  of  an  ROI  with  the  local  AFOSI  detachment/squadron  commander  or special  agent-in-charge.    The  servicing  legal  office  should  consider  using  extracts  and summaries of ROIs for administrative proceedings. (T-2) 1.5.9.  Release ROIs to special victims’ counsel through the servicing legal office.  ROIs or any  portions  of  ROIs  should  only  be  released  to  a  special  victims’  counsel  through  the servicing legal office pursuant to DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, after  written  approval  of  the  release  by  the  servicing  SJA.    This  approval  authority  is  not delegable.  In determining whether a release of an ROI or any part of an ROI is releasable, the servicing SJA must make a finding that the special victims’ counsel has articulated, in sufficient detail, a need for the record in the performance of his or her duties; that the special victims’  counsel’s  intended  use  generally  relates  to  the  purpose  for  which  the  record  is maintained;  and  that  only  those  records  that  are  minimally  required  to  accomplish  the intended use are disclosed.   The entire record is not released if only a part of the record will be responsive to the request.  When making the decision to approve a release of an ROI or any portion of an ROI to a special victims’ counsel, the servicing SJA will carefully consider what, if any, of the information is responsive to the request and should consider redacting PA information or other information of concern (e.g., confidential source information, sensitive investigative techniques, information concerning ongoing investigations).  The servicing SJA will  coordinate  the  release  of  an  ROI  or  any  portion  of  an  ROI  with  the  local  AFOSI detachment/squadron commander or special agent-in-charge. (T-2) 1.6.  Installation Defense Force Commander (DFC).  The DFC is responsible for establishing a  Security  Forces  (SF)  investigations  section  and  will  work  with  the  local  AFOSI  field  unit leader  to  ensure  SF  de-conflicts  confidential  informants  by  providing  names,  units,  and  the nature  of  the  criminal  investigation  in  which  the  informant  is  being  used.  (T-1)    Further information should be provided upon request.  8 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 Chapter 2 INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM 2.1.  Determining  AFOSI,  Security  Forces,  and  Conservation  Law  Enforcement  Officials Spheres of Influence. responsibility for  conducting  criminal 2.1.1.  AFOSI is a field operating agency under the administrative guidance and oversight of The Inspector General of the Air Force (SAF/IG).  It is a federal law enforcement agency with investigations,  counterintelligence  and specialized  investigative  activities,  protective  service  operations  and  integrated  force protection  for  the  Air  Force.    AFOSI  is  also  a  combat-ready  military  organization  that provides  the  Air  Force  a  wartime  capability  to  conduct,  in  hostile  and  uncertain environments,  counter-threat  operations  to  find,  fix,  track,  and  neutralize  enemy  threats.  And,  AFOSI  is  the  Air  Force's  focal  point  for  working  with  US  and  foreign  nation  law enforcement and security services in order to provide timely and accurate threat information in  all  environments  IAW  Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (AFMD)  39,  Air  Force  Office  of Special Investigations. 2.1.2.  Security Forces normally investigate the crimes specified in the far right column of Attachment 2, AFOSI and Security Forces Investigative Matrix.  However, the investigative matrix  is  merely  a  guide.    Investigative  resource  considerations  at  the  installation  level should be considered when determining whether AFOSI or Security Forces is best able to investigate a particular matter where law or higher-level policy doesn’t dictate a particular agency investigates. (T-2)  Security Forces will ensure AFOSI is promptly notified upon the initiation  of  all  criminal  investigations  in  which  a  military  service  member  or  his/her immediate family members, an AF/DoD civilian, an AF/DoD contractor or the Government is identified as either the suspect or victim of criminal activity. (T-2) 2.1.3.  Air Force Conservation Law Enforcement Officials (CLEO) normally enforce federal laws associated with hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation regulations, to include general enforcement of open dumping and other general environmental regulations.  CLEOs should ensure AFOSI is promptly notified prior to the initiation of any criminal investigation. 2.1.4.  IAW DoDI 5505.16, Criminal Investigations by Personnel Who Are Not Assigned to a Defense  Criminal  Investigative  Organization,  AFOSI  field  unit  leaders  have  the  authority and  independent  discretion  to  assume  primary  investigative  responsibility,  join  a  Security Forces  or  CLEO  investigation,  or  monitor  the  progress  of  a  Security  Forces  or  CLEO investigation when it involves Air Force or DoD personnel, property, or resources.  When AFOSI assumes control of an investigation, all material pertinent to the investigation shall be released to AFOSI. (T-1)  Equally, when AFOSI refers an investigation to SF, all material pertinent to the investigation should be released to SF. 2.2.  Accreditation.  The Commander, AFOSI, accredits AFOSI personnel and those detailed to AFOSI for the purpose of official identification. 2.2.1.  HQ  AFOSI  issues  badges  and  credentials  to  special  agents.    Special  agents  are authorized to:  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 9 2.2.1.1.  Enter  any  Air  Force  installation  or  off-limits  areas  in  the  furtherance  of  an AFOSI mission unless Air Force security publications state otherwise. 2.2.1.2.  Access  all  Air  Force  records,  property,  and  people,  except  as  limited  by  law, instruction, and security publications. 2.2.1.3.  Carry  concealed  or  unconcealed  US  Government-issued  or  AFOSI-approved privately owned weapons and ammunition on which they are trained and qualified. 2.2.1.4.  Wear civilian clothing while performing their duties. 2.2.2.  HQ AFOSI issues other badges and/or credentials to AFOSI employees or other Air Force personnel detailed to AFOSI for the purpose of identification.  Members are authorized to use those credentials or badges in the performance of official duties to verify their roles and responsibilities while performing the AFOSI mission. 2.3.  Masking  Rank.  Masking  rank  and  grade  directly  contributes  to  achieving  an  efficient, effective,  and  unbiased  investigative  process.    AFOSI  agents  interact  daily,  often  in  an adversarial role, with individuals who are junior and senior in grade to them; the issue of rank should not be an impediment to the pursuit of information or evidence in criminal investigations.  Additionally, agents interact daily with high-ranking representatives of federal, state, local, and foreign  national  law  enforcement,  counterintelligence,  and  security  agencies;  in  many  foreign countries,  representatives  place  importance  on  working  with  counterparts  of  equal  or  higher grade.  Agents are also often required to work in unfriendly and hostile environments and not disclosing  the  rank  and  grade  of  agents  helps  to  ensure  their  safety.    AFOSI  military  special agents assigned to AFOSI will mask their rank and grade when performing investigative duties. (T-2) 2.3.1.  The  wear  of  civilian  clothes  helps  protect  the  grades  of  special  agents.    Civilian clothing allowances are authorized according to AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for Air Force Personnel. 2.3.2.  Federal (i.e., AFOSI, NCIS, FBI, DCIS Special Agents, etc.), State, Local, and Tribal law  enforcement  officers/agents  may  use  their  law  enforcement  credentials  for  installation access while conducting active law enforcement operations/investigations and/or responding to  emergencies  on  the  installation  according  to  AFMAN  31-113,  Installation  Perimeter Access Control, paragraphs 2.8. and 2.9.  NOTE:  In support of operational activities and to ensure operational security, AFOSI special agents presenting law enforcement credentials for installation access may sponsor all accompanying personnel and/or vehicle(s) without further identification or searches. (T-1) 2.3.3.  In accordance with AFPD 71-1, special agents are authorized to use their badge and credentials for identification and access to all off-limits areas and Air Force records for the purpose of conducting official business unless law or Air Force security  publications state otherwise. 2.3.4.  To preserve the integrity of criminal investigations, ensure the effectiveness of AFOSI agents  executing  the  counterintelligence  mission,  and  for  agent  safety,  offices  that  use systems  that  display  unmasked  rank  data  should  make  efforts  to  safeguard  against  the disclosure of ranks and grades of AFOSI special agents.  10 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 2.4.  Using  Emergency  and  Extraordinary  Expense  Funds  (E-Funds).  Subject  to  the limitation of appropriations, 10 USC § 127, Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses, provides the SECAF authority for any emergency or extraordinary expenses that cannot be anticipated or classified.   AFOSI  uses  E-Funds  for  any  authorized  requirement  that  contributes  to counterintelligence  and  investigative  missions  or  aids  in  acquiring  counterintelligence  or criminal investigative information. 2.4.1.  Congress annually allocates E-Fund limitation authority to the SECAF.  SECAF has delegated  authority  for  E-Funds  to  the  Administrative  Assistant  to  SECAF  (SAF/AA).  SAF/AA sets the annual E-Fund expenditure limitation and reports E-Funds expenditures to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). 2.4.2.  SAF/AA annually allocates a specific portion of the E-Fund limitation authority from Congress to SAF/IG.  SAF/IG oversees the Air Force E-Funds for counterintelligence and criminal  investigative  programs  and  delegates  the  authority  to  approve  counterintelligence and investigative expenditures to the Commander, AFOSI. 2.4.3.  The  Commander,  AFOSI,  manages  and the counterintelligence  and  criminal  investigative  program  and  ensures  that  expenditures  are proper.  The Commander, AFOSI, or a designee, should approve the use of E-Funds for the extension  of  modest  liaison  event  courtesies  attended  by  representatives  of  foreign  law enforcement and intelligence agencies and key representatives of US Federal, state, county, or local law enforcement and intelligence agencies. 2.4.4.  The Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) audits the E-Funds program annually to ensure compliance with this instruction and internal AFOSI instructions. 2.4.5.  The E-Funds Custodian at each field unit is responsible for the unit’s working fund.  Cash  on  hand  must  be  stored  in  a  General  Services  Administration  (GSA)-approved container with a three-position combination lock. (T-0) the  E-Funds implements for 2.5.  Defense Central Index of Investigations (DCII).  AFOSI will index subjects of criminal investigations in DCII as soon as it is determined that credible information exists that the subject committed a criminal offense IAW DoDI 5505.07, Titling and Indexing of Subjects of Criminal Investigations  in  the  Department  of  Defense.  (T-0)    As  a  courtesy,  AFOSI  should  assist  in indexing subjects based on reports of crimes provided by Security Forces.  The act of titling and indexing are administrative procedures and do not connote any degree of guilt or innocence. 2.6.  Fingerprints.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces  will  submit  the  Federal  Document  (FD)  249, Suspect Fingerprint Card, when probable cause exists to believe that a person has committed an offense  that  requires  submission  of  offender  criminal  history  data  IAW  DoDI  5505.11, Fingerprint Card and Final Disposition Report Submission Requirements. (T-0)  When required, an FBI/DoJ Form R-84, Final Disposition Report, will be submitted to the FBI within 15 days after final disposition for inclusion in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) criminal history database IAW DoDI 5505.11. (T-0) 2.7.  Deoxyribonucleic  Acid  (DNA)  Samples.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces  will  take  DNA samples of suspects, normally at the same time as fingerprints are taken, and send to the United States  Army  Criminal  Investigation  Laboratory  (USACIL)  according  to  DoDI  5505.14, Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Collection Requirements for Criminal Investigations. (T-0)  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 11 2.8.  Department of Justice (DoJ) Referrals.  AFOSI refers cases to the DoJ IAW AFPD 71-1 for crimes over which the Air Force does not have jurisdiction. 2.9.  Law  Enforcement  Collection  of  Information  on  Non-DoD  US  Persons.  AFOSI personnel  will  not  collect information  on  non-DoD  personnel;  and organizations  within  the  United  States  and  non-DoD  US  citizens  anywhere  else  in  the  world unless they pose a threat to Air Force installations, resources or personnel IAW AFPD 71-1 and DoD  Directive  (DoDD)  5200.27,  Acquisition  of  Information  Concerning  Persons  and Organizations not Affiliated with the Department of Defense. (T-0) law  enforcement 2.9.1.  These  restrictions  do  not  apply  to  the  collection  of  information  by  Air  Force organizations  when  performing  intelligence  and  counterintelligence  functions  according  to Executive  Order  (E.O.)  12333,  United  States  Intelligence  Activities.    Such  organizations performing  intelligence  and  counterintelligence  functions  are  defined  in  and  will  comply with AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities. (T-1) 2.9.2.  During the  course of normal operations and training, if AFOSI incidentally  collects information, consistent with law and DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That Affect United States Persons, about the criminal activity or criminal involvement of a civilian not associated with the DoD; such information will be turned over to the appropriate civilian law enforcement agency. (T-0)  Planning or creating missions or training for the primary purpose of aiding civilian law enforcement officials is not  permitted.    Conducting  training  or  missions  for  the  purpose  of  routinely  collecting information about US citizens is likewise not permitted.  See DoDI 3025.21, Defense Support of Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies, and DoDD 5200.27, paragraph 6.1. 2.9.3.  Report all suspected violations of this section to the Inspector General, identifying the area in which the violation occurred. 2.10.  AFOSI  and  SJA  Collaboration.  AFOSI  and  the  local  SJA  should  develop  a collaborative relationship focused on integrating investigative efforts and the legal process.  The goal is a thorough ROI, robust litigation preparation, and timely resolution of military justice. 2.10.1.  AFOSI field units should work closely with the servicing SJA in matters involving violations  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  or  where  the  Military Extraterritorial  Jurisdiction  Act  (MEJA)  may  apply.    This  collaboration  begins  at  the initiation of and continues throughout substantive criminal investigations.  As  appropriate, designated  local  SJA  support  team  members  or  Chief  of  Military  Justice  should  attend AFOSI case review meetings.  Likewise, AFOSI personnel should attend relevant local SJA military  justice  meetings.    When  appropriate,  AFOSI  shares  investigative  data  (written statements, evidence, etc.) as well as information on anticipated leads in the investigation.  AFOSI  also  coordinates  with  the  assigned  trial  team  on  all  subject  interviews  when appropriate.  In accordance with AFPD 71-1, no other type of investigation, administrative, personnel,  or  other  legal  action  should  be  taken  against  someone  under  investigation  by AFOSI before coordinating with AFOSI and the servicing SJA. 2.10.2.  Occasionally, there are cases where providing investigative information may not be prudent.  Examples of such matters include premature compromise of a confidential source, investigations  involving  local  SJA  personnel,  grand  jury  information,  and/or  cases  not destined for the military justice system (e.g., central systems fraud cases being handled by  12 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 the DoJ).  To avoid compromise of sensitive investigative information, including techniques, leads,  statements  and  evidence,  the  local  SJA  will  not  up-channel  sensitive  investigative information (information that would reveal sources, law enforcement techniques, procedures or  jeopardize  an  on-going  operation  or  information  provided  by  another  law  enforcement agency)  without  the  concurrence  of  the  AFOSI  field  unit  leader.  (T-2)    AFOSI  field  unit leaders should identify to the local SJA those details of an investigation that should not be up-channeled  in  JA  reports.    AFOSI  is  responsible  for  providing  such  information  to appropriate officials. 2.11.  Suspicious  Activity  Reports  (SARs).  DoDI  2000.26,  Suspicious  Activity  Reporting (SAR), mandates the use of the FBI’s eGuardian system for reporting SARs. 2.11.1.  AFOSI is the sole Air Force law enforcement agency authorized to investigate and create  SARs.    Security  Forces  should  notify  AFOSI  of  any  reports  of  suspicious  activity.  Should an incident occur on an ANG installation and the responsible AFOSI field unit leader concurs, SF may conduct the preliminary inquiry, expeditiously providing the results to the AFOSI field unit.  NOTE: This is the exception and not the normal SAR response. 2.11.2.  All  Air  Force  requests  for  eGuardian  accounts  should  be  routed  through  the  local AFOSI field unit and should validate the identity and need for information, and then forward the request to the AFOSI program manager.  AFOSI is the sole Air Force interface to create eGuardian accounts. 2.11.3.  Local  detachments  will  respond  to,  investigate  and  report  incidents  for  evaluation and  dissemination.    AFOSI  ICON  makes  the  final  determination  for  inclusion  in  the eGuardian  system  and  is  responsible  for  analyzing  reports.    Requests  for  access  to information within eGuardian shall be directed to AFOSI. (T-0)  No action should be taken without consulting with the agency that submitted the information and/or referring the access request to the appropriate agency for disposition.  In the event of a FOIA request, contact HQ AFOSI/XILI.    AFOSI  is  the  Air  Force  interface  between  Joint  Terrorism  Task  Forces (JTTFs),  FBI,  and  local  law  enforcement.    To  avoid  confusion  between  multiple  agencies requesting information or seeking clarification, no other Air Force entity should contact other agencies  regarding  eGuardian  reports.    Requests  for  information  should  go  to  the  local servicing AFOSI field unit. (T-0) 2.12.  Enemy  Prisoner  of  War  (EPW)/Detainee  Information.  AFOSI  will  document  ALL EPW/detainee-related incidents and/or information received by AFOSI that do not warrant the initiation of a case file. (T-2)  For the purpose of this instruction, the definition of “EPW” is as defined in Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of 12 August 1949, Article 4, Prisoners of War; and “detainee” is as defined in Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 31-304, Enemy Prisoners of War, Retained Personnel, Civilian Internees and other Detainees.  In addition, a detainee also includes anyone who is apprehended, arrested, or held against his or her  liberty  in  the  course  of  a  law  enforcement  investigation.    EPW/detainee-related  incidents and/or information received by AFOSI may range from a witness alleging a US military member may  have  assaulted  a  detainee  to  another  witness  overhearing  other  US  military  members converse about photographs taken of detainees. 2.13.  Obtaining  Information  from  Financial  Institutions.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces  can issue  written  requests  for  financial  account  information  in  the  course  of  law  enforcement  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 13 inquiries IAW DoDI 5400.15, Guidance on Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions. (T-0) 2.14.  Setting up Joint Drug Enforcement Teams (JDETs).  AFOSI and Security Forces form JDETs when necessary to combat drug abuse. 2.14.1.  Without a JDET, AFOSI and Security Forces normally address separate parts of drug investigations on a particular base as defined in Attachement 2, Table A2.1, Rule 10.  The JDET program allows efforts to be combined, so a single team may jointly run informants targeted against illegal drug use and distribution.  The decision to employ a JDET is based on recommendations from the AFOSI field unit leader and the DFC.  The  Wing Commander may not establish a JDET without the concurrence of the AFOSI field unit leader. 2.14.2.  The DFC nominates an SF candidate for the JDET.  Candidates are subject to AFOSI field  unit  leadership  approval  and  should  serve  in  the JDET  capacity  for  a  minimum  of 1 year.  SF personnel who have already completed the US Army Military Police Investigators Course are preferred. 2.14.3.  AFOSI conducts the background investigation on the JDET candidate 2.14.4.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces  define  operational  and  administrative  tasks  in  internal instructions.  Memoranda of agreement may be developed to cover local operational matters. 2.15.  Investigation of Illegal Drug Use and Distribution.  Consistent with provisions defining persons subject to the UCMJ contained in the Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM), AFOSI and Security Forces investigate drug offenses committed by members of the Armed Forces as shown in Attachment 2.  AFOSI may also investigate drug offenses committed by specified persons not subject to the UCMJ when there is a clear and direct Air Force connection and interest. 2.16.  Death  Investigations  of  Active  Duty  Military  Members.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces conduct death investigations according to the matrix in Attachment 2 when the Air Force has investigative jurisdiction.  According to DoDI 5505.10, Criminal Investigations of Noncombat Deaths, all non-combat deaths of military members on active duty, not medically determined to be from natural causes, are investigated by AFOSI to determine the cause and manner of death.  Normally,  AFOSI does  not investigate  accidental deaths when a preliminary inquiry discloses the death was an accident with no evidence of a criminal act.  Where an authority other than the Office of the Armed Forces Medical Examiner (AFME), determines the manner of death, AFOSI submits  the  ROI  to  AFME  for  a  consultation  opinion  on  the  comprehensiveness  and  medical sufficiency  of  the  investigation  as  it  pertains  to  the  cause  and  manner  of  death.    Per  DoDI 5154.30,  Armed  Forces  Institute  of  Pathology  Operations,  Enclosure  2,  AFOSI  will  conduct psychological autopsies only in cases where the manner of death has not been determined by the responsible coroner or medical examiner, and suicide is considered a possible manner of death, or in certain unique circumstances. (T-0)  Psychological autopsies must be approved in advance by the AFME. (T-0) 2.16.1.  Family  Liaison  Program.  This program enhances  communication between AFOSI and  the  immediate  family  members  of  a  deceased  active  duty  member  whose  death  was investigated  by  AFOSI.    It  is  designed  to  promote  an  open  dialogue  between  AFOSI  and family members, ensure issues and questions raised by the family are thoroughly addressed in  a  timely  manner,  and  prevent  misunderstandings.    The  procedures  for  this  program  are  14 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 published in internal AFOSI instructions according to the requirements established in DoDI 5505.10. 2.16.2.  AFOSI should attempt to accomplish the following in those instances when the Air Force does not have investigative jurisdiction: 2.16.2.1.  Maintain  liaison  with  the  law  enforcement  organization  conducting  the investigation. 2.16.2.2.  Assist the family of the deceased in obtaining cooperation from the responsible law enforcement organization. 2.16.2.3.  Obtain and provide to the appropriate military authorities a copy of the report of investigation, including any forensic or autopsy results. 2.17.  Adultery,  Fraternization,  and  Sexual  Harassment.  The  following  guidance  and procedures  apply  to  handling  allegations  of  sexual  misconduct  as  defined  in  DoDI  5505.08, Military  Criminal  Investigative  Organizations  (MCIO)  and  Other  DoD  Law  Enforcement Organizations Investigations of Adult, Private, Consensual Sexual Misconduct. 2.17.1.  Allegations  of  adult  private  consensual  sexual  misconduct  (including  adultery  and fraternization) received by AFOSI or Security Forces are normally referred to the subject’s commander,  unless  the  subject  is  in  a  position  of  authority  over  the  victim  as  defined  in Attachment 2, Note 2.  Per DoDI 5505.18, AFOSI will investigate authority figures accused of  sexual  contact  with  a  person  over  whom  they  exercise  authority.  (T-0)    AFOSI  field leaders  must  obtain  approval  from  the  AFOSI  Commander,  Vice  Commander,  or  ICON Director prior to initiating an investigation into adult private consensual sexual misconduct not involving an authority figure. (T-1) 2.17.2.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces  usually  refer  allegations  of  sexual  harassment  to  the subject’s  commander.    AFOSI  does  not  normally  investigate  a  service  member  for  sexual harassment,  unless  the  allegation  is  combined  with  another  more  serious  criminal  offense.  Such  matters  usually  fall  under  the  investigative  purview  of  the  service  member’s commander, Military Equal Opportunity, or the installation Inspector General. 2.18.  Setting  up  Joint  Sexual  Assault  Investigative  Teams  (JSAT).  This  is  a  cooperative initiative wherein SF personnel serve jointly with AFOSI special agents on adult victim sexual assault investigation teams. 2.18.1.  The  decision  to  employ  a  JSAT  is  based  upon  recommendations  from  the  AFOSI field unit leader and the DFC.  The Wing Commander may not establish a JSAT without the concurrence of the AFOSI field unit leader. 2.18.2.  The DFC nominates an SF candidate for the JSAT.  Candidates are subject to AFOSI field  unit  leadership  approval  and  should  serve  in  the  JSAT  capacity  for  a  minimum  of  1 year.  SF personnel who have already completed the US Army Military Police Investigators Course are preferred. 2.18.3.  AFOSI  conducts  the  background  investigation  on  the  JSAT  candidate  and  should provide  additional  training  through  the  AFOSI  Sexual  Crimes  Investigations  Training Program (SCITP) course.  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 15 2.18.4.  AFOSI  and  Security  Forces  define  operational  and  administrative  tasks  in  internal instructions.  Memoranda of agreement may be developed to cover local operational matters. 2.19.  Sexual Assaults.  IAW DoDI 5505.18, AFOSI will initiate investigations of all offenses of adult sexual assault of which they become aware, that occur within their jurisdiction, regardless of the severity of the offense. (T-0) 2.19.1.  AFOSI should be notified and refer to Attachment 2 when unrestricted reports are received.    AFOSI  will  safeguard  Sexual  Assault  Forensic  Examination  (SAFE)  kits  as evidence for restricted reports IAW AFI 90-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program. (T-1) 2.20.  Investigating  Fraud  Offenses.  AFOSI  complies  with  the  direction  contained  within AFPD 71-1, to investigate major fraud offenses involving DoD programs and personnel and to present  them  for  prosecution.    Investigating  agents  may  submit  reports  of  investigation  for review  under  the  Program  Fraud  Civil  Remedies  Act  (PFCRA)  IAW  AFI  51-1101,  The  Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program. 2.21.  Contractor Disclosure Program.  AFOSI is responsible for evaluating, thoroughly and in a  timely  manner,  fraud  allegations  received  from  DoD  IG  through  the  DoD  Contractor Disclosure  Program.    When  indicated,  AFOSI  is  responsible  for  investigating  credible allegations and providing quarterly updates as well as a copy of the final ROI and all actions taken  as  a  result  of  an  investigation  to  the  DoD  IG  IAW  DoDI  5505.15,  DoD  Contractor Disclosure Program. (T-0) 2.22.  Environmental  Crime.  Air  Force  officials report  all  suspected  violations  of environmental  laws  to  AFOSI.    AFOSI  conducts  criminal  investigations  when  warranted,  and complies  with  the  training  and  medical  requirements  of  the  Occupational  Safety  and  Health Administration.  AFOSI also coordinates with installation public health officials, installation and MAJCOM SJA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and state enforcement agencies in those states where the EPA has delegated enforcement authority. 2.22.1.  At Air Force installations with a Conservation Law Enforcement Program (CLEP), CLEOs conducting criminal investigations will comply with the policies and procedures of DoDIs 5505.07, 5505.11, 5505.14, 5505.16, and 5505.17, Collection, Maintenance, Use, and Dissemination of Personally Identifiable Information and Law Enforcement Information by DoD Law Enforcement Activities. (T-0) 2.23.  Crimes  that  Involve  Air  Force  Computer  Systems.  AFOSI  provides  investigative expertise for all investigations involving computers used as an instrument in the commission of a crime, that may contain evidence of a crime, or that are the target of a crime.  All AFOSI agents are provided the tools and are trained to a basic level of proficiency in mobile phone analysis, hard  disk  triage  and  hard  disk  imaging.    Cyber  Crime  Investigators  (CCI)  receive  further specialized  training  to  provide  AFOSI  capabilities  to  perform  computer  forensic  analysis, technical  interviews  where  computer  terminology  is  used,  and  in  the  development  of  various legal documents (e.g., an affidavit used in applying for a search warrant).  In addition, AFOSI CCIs  are  the  primary  investigators  for  intrusions  into  USAF  and  selected  DoD  computer systems.  Upon discovery, Air Force officials should report all suspected intrusions to AFOSI. 2.23.1.  AFOSI is the only agency in the Air Force with the authority to investigate computer intrusions.    AFOSI’s  CCIs  produce  intelligence  reports  that  detail  intrusion  methods  and  16 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 techniques and attempt to identify known Foreign Intelligence Services (FIS), subversive, or terrorist groups attacking DoD computer systems.  AFOSI computer intrusion investigative and  operational  activities  may  identify  additional  information  system  vulnerabilities, information system threat information, subject  (criminal or counterintelligence) attribution, and ex-filtrated data to aid in damage assessments during the course of the investigation or operation. 2.23.2.  DC3  conducts  digital  and  multimedia  forensics  analysis  for  forensic  support  to investigations of computer intrusions, IAW AFPD 71-1.  DC3 should be the first option for digital forensic support to AFOSI investigations and operations.  The DC3-Analytical Group provides cyber analysis products and services to support AFOSI in their cyber investigations and operations. 2.24.  Processing Requests to Intercept Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications for Law Enforcement  Purposes.  AFOSI is the only agency within the Air Force with the authority to intercept electronic, oral or wire communications; install or use pen registers, employ trap and trace devices; use electronic or optical enhancements for surveillance; conduct covert video and photographic  surveillance  activities;  and/or  track  individuals  or  items  using  technical  services and  surveillance  in  criminal  investigations  IAW  DoDI  O-5505.09,  Interception  of  Wire, Electronic, and Oral Communications for Law Enforcement. 2.25.  Firearms  Tracing  in  Connection  with  Criminal  Investigations.  AFOSI  and  Security Forces  will  both  conduct  an  NCIC  query  and  Bureau  of  Alcohol,  Tobacco,  Firearms,  and Explosives  (ATF)  eTrace  database  check  on  all  firearms  seized/recovered  in  the  course  of criminal  investigations  and  taken  into  Federal  custody  consistent  with  18  USC,  Chapter  44, Front  Matter,  Presidential  Memorandum,  Tracing  of  Firearms  in  Connection  with  Criminal Investigations. (T-0) 2.26.  Law  Enforcement  Defense  Data  Exchange  (LE  D-DEx).  AFOSI  will  share  closed criminal  case  file  data  and  information  maintained  in  the  AFOSI  unclassified  Investigative Information Management System through the LE D-DEx, IAW DoDI 5525.16, Law Enforcement Defense Data Exchange (LE D-DEx). (T-0) 2.27.  Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability.  AFOSI has primary investigative  responsibility  for  sexual  assault  investigations  in  the  Air  Force  and  will  provide trained investigators for all covered offenses as defined in DoDI 5505.18, and DoDI 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program Procedures.  These investigators will be certified as required by DoDI 5505.19. (T-0) 2.28.  Sexual  Assault  Incident  Response  Oversight  (SAIRO)  Report.  Designated  SVIP investigators  closely  interact  with  assigned  specially  trained  judge  advocates,  DoD  Sexual Assault  Response  Coordinators  (SARCs),  Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and  Response  Victim Advocates  (SAPR  VAs),  Family  Advocacy  Program  (FAP)  managers,  and  domestic  abuse victim advocates (DAVAs) during all stages of the investigative and military justice process. All adult  sexual  assault  cases  involving  a  Service  member  victim  or  a  Service  member  subject require the MCIO (AFOSI) to provide  incident data to the commander for completion of the SAIRO IAW DTM 14-007, pg. 9 para 5.a. (1) - (10).  If the MCIO (AFOSI) has been notified of the disposition in a civilian sexual assault case, the MCIO (AFOSI) shall notify the commander of this disposition immediately IAW DoDI 6495.02.  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 17 2.29.  Restricted  Reporting.  In  accordance  with  DoDI  6495.02,  at  least  30  days  before  the expiration of the 5-year storage period for the SAFE, the DoD law enforcement (Security Forces) or MCIO (AFOSI) shall notify the installation SARC that the storage period is about to expire and confirm with the SARC that the victim has not made a request to  change to Unrestricted Reporting or made a request for any personal effects.  18 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 Chapter 3 SPECIALIZED INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES 3.1.  Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Techniques: 3.1.1.  SECAF authorizes use of the PCA techniques in the Air Force according to AFPD 71-1 and DoDI 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Procedures. 3.1.1.1.  The  Commander,  AFOSI,  or  designee,  manages  the  Air  Force  Polygraph Program. 3.1.1.2.  AFOSI  is  the  only  Air  Force  organization  authorized  to  conduct  PCA examinations, acquire or possess PCA equipment, or to have examiners trained in PCA techniques to support criminal investigations. 3.1.2.  Criteria for Conducting Criminal Scope PCA Examinations.  The Air Force Polygraph Program  Management  Office  (PPMO)  (HQ  AFOSI/XRZP)  may  authorize  the  use  of  PCA techniques in a criminal investigation when the following apply: 3.1.2.1.  The  crime  involves  an  offense  punishable  under  federal  law,  including  the UCMJ, by death or confinement for 1 year or more. 3.1.2.2.  Investigation by other means has been as thorough as circumstances permit. 3.1.2.3.  The development of information by means of a PCA technique is essential to the conduct of the investigation. 3.1.2.4.  The person being considered for the examination was interviewed and there is reasonable cause to believe the person has knowledge of or was involved in the matter under investigation. 3.1.2.4.1.  The person being considered is at least 15 years old and voluntarily agreed to undergo PCA testing.  Testing of minors age 15 and below normally is not done without the prior consent of his/her parent or legal guardian.  Requests to test minors without such consent should be coordinated with the servicing SJA. 3.1.2.5.  The Air Force PPMO may approve the use of a PCA technique in any matter deemed to be in the best interest of the Air Force, DoD, or national security. 3.1.3.  PCA Examinations Conducted by Non-Federal Agencies.  The Air Force only accepts PCA examinations and/or the results of such examinations conducted by Federal examiners.  This restriction exists because the DoD cannot attest to the conditions under which a non-federal examiner administered a PCA examination.  This does not restrict the consideration of any evidence as required by the US Constitution or other applicable laws. 3.1.4.  PCA  Examinations  of  Pregnant  Examinees.    Pregnant  examinees  should  present  a written opinion from their attending physician before being administered a PCA examination.  The  opinion  should  state  the  PCA  examination  will  have  no  adverse  effects  on  the examinee’s pregnancy. 3.1.4.1.  Administer  PCA  examinations  in  the  third  trimester  of  pregnancy  only  for incidents involving the most serious offenses.  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 19 3.1.5.  PCA Examinations of Sexual Assault Victims.  The Air Force PPMO only considers approving a request for a PCA examination of a sexual assault victim after the subject of the allegation, if known, declines the offer to take a PCA examination. 3.1.5.1.  PCA examination of such victims is not ordinarily approved unless 3.1.5.1. PCA examination of such victims is not ordinarily approved unless circumstances clearly warrant it. 3.1.6.  Requesting PCA Support.  Air Force Commanders and Air Force organizations with responsibility  for  security,  law  enforcement,  or  the  administration  of  criminal  justice,  and DoD Components that receive investigative support from the Department of the Air Force, may request an Air Force PCA examination. 3.1.6.1.  Submit  routine  requests  for  PCA  support  to  the  nearest  AFOSI  detachment, squadron, or region office by any means available including in person, letter, message, electronic mail, or facsimile. 3.1.6.1.1.  The local AFOSI office, in turn, forwards all requests through the servicing Regional Polygraph Office (RPO) to the Air Force PPMO for approval. 3.1.6.2.  Only the AFOSI Commander, Vice Commander, Polygraph Program Manager, and quality assurance personnel within the PPMO can approve a PCA examination. 3.1.7.  Preparing the PCA Request.  A PCA request should, to the extent possible, contain the following information so that the PPMO has sufficient information to evaluate the request.  Information  in  paragraphs  3.1.7.1  and  3.1.7.6  are  usually  reserved  for  law  enforcement personnel but may, in isolated instances, apply to others.  Contact the nearest AFOSI office if you require assistance in preparing the request. 3.1.7.1.  Reference  or  Investigation  Number.    Although  this  is  usually  reserved  for investigative  personnel,  if  an  internal  organizational  investigative  file  number  or  other reference number has been assigned, identify it here. 3.1.7.2.  Title of Case.  Identify, in a concise statement, the matter being investigated. 3.1.7.3.  Case Summary.  Include a brief summary of pertinent facts.  You should address the "who, what, where, when, and why" surrounding the review, inquiry, or investigation. 3.1.7.4.  Biographical Data for Each Examinee.  Provide the full name, sex, date of birth, place of birth, grade, social security number (if applicable), organization, command, and place of duty assignment. 3.1.7.5.  Reason for the  Examination.  Explain why  you believe a PCA examination is essential.  Address investigative efforts already undertaken and how a PCA examination would help the investigation. 3.1.7.6.  Medical  Records  Check.    This  is  usually  reserved  for  investigative  personnel because of restrictions placed on who may access another person’s medical records.  This information  should  address  a  proposed  examinee’s  physical,  mental,  and  emotional suitability for testing.  Identify the name of the medical representative who conducted the records  check.    Investigators  will  provide  documentation  of  an  open  investigation  and written  request  to  medical  personnel  who  will  review  the  medical  record  to  address  a  20 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 proposed examinee’s physical, mental, and emotional suitability for testing. (T-2)  The investigator should not have direct access to the record. 3.1.7.7.  Case Adjudication.   Indicate whether  or not the examinee has been tried by a court or has accepted non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, for the offense concerned. 3.1.7.8.  Pending  Charges.    Indicate  whether  or  not  charges  of  any  kind  have  been preferred against the examinee.  If no charges have been preferred, include other action being considered. 3.1.7.9.  PCA  Coordination.    Coordinate  all  PCA  requests  with  the  servicing  RPO.  Identify the name of the Polygraph Examiner with whom the request was coordinated. 3.1.7.9.1.  For  post-investigative  requests,  state  whether  the  SJA  concurs  or  non-concurs with conducting the examination.  Identify the name of the SJA with whom the request was coordinated. 3.1.7.10.  Other Factors.  Include any additional information you believe is pertinent in adjudicating the PCA request such as command interest, pending separation of proposed examinee, or the possibility of media coverage. 3.1.8.  Post-Investigative  Requests.    Post-investigative  requests  for  PCA  support  are  only considered for approval after coordination with, and the concurrence of, the servicing SJA. 3.1.8.1.  The  Air  Force  PPMO  should  consider  the  merits  of  each  post-investigative request for PCA support as well as the SJA’s opinion. 3.1.9.  Post-Judicial Requests.  The Air Force PPMO will not routinely approve the conduct of  post-judicial  PCA  examinations.    The  PPMO  will  coordinate  all  post-judicial  PCA requests with AFOSI/JA. (T-1) 3.1.10.  Waiver, Deviations, or Exceptions to Air Force and DoD PCA Program Policy.  Any person  or  entity  requesting  a  waiver  to  the  Air  Force  PCA  Program  policy  will  submit  a letter, message or other document through the Air Force Polygraph Program Manager to the Commander, AFOSI. (T-0) 3.1.10.1.  AFOSI will process all waiver requests through SECAF to DoD PCA Program policy to the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (DUSD(P)) for resolution. (T-1)                                                                      GREGORY A. BISCONE, Lieutenant General, USAF                                                                     The Inspector General  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 21 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References 5 USC § 552a, Records Maintained on Individuals 10 USC § 127, Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses 10 USC §§ 801-940, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) 18 USC, Chapter 44, Front Matter, Presidential Memorandum, Tracing of Firearms in Connection with Criminal Investigations, 16 January 2013 18 USC § 2510(1), Wire Communication 18 USC § 2510(2), Oral Communication 18 USC § 2510(4), Intercept 18 USC § 2510(12), Electronic Communication 18 USC § 2510(13), User 18 USC § 3117, Mobile Tracking Devices 18 USC § 3127(3), Pen Register 18 USC § 3127(4), Trap and Trace Device E.O. 12333, United States Intelligence Activities Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of 12 August 1949, Article 4, Prisoners of War Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, 2012 Edition DoDI 2000.26, Suspicious Activity Reporting (SAR), 23 September 2014 DoDI 3025.21, Defense Support of Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies, 27 February 2013 DoDI 5154.30, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Operations, 18 March 2003 DoDD 5200.27, Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and Organizations not Affiliated with the Department of Defense, 07 January 1980 DoDI 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Procedures, 12 August 2010, Incorporating Change 1, 15 October 2013 DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 2010, Incorporating Change 2, 22 January 2015  DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 14 May 2007 DoDI 5400.15, Guidance on Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions, 02 December 2004, Incorporating Change 1, 03 July 2007 DoDI 5505.02, Criminal Investigations of Fraud Offenses, 29 August 2013  22 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 DoDI 5505.03, Initiation of Investigations by Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations, 24 March 2011 DoDI 5505.07, Titling and Indexing of Subjects of Criminal Investigations in the Department of Defense, 27 January 2012 DoDI 5505.08, Military Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIO) and Other DoD Law Enforcement Organizations Investigations of Adult, Private, Consensual Sexual Misconduct, 17 April 2013 DoDI O-5505.09, Interception of Wire, Electronic, and Oral Communications for Law Enforcement, 27 November 2013, Incorporating Change 1, 27 May 2014 DoDI 5505.10, Criminal Investigations of Noncombat Deaths, 15 August 2013 DoDI 5505.11, Fingerprint Card and Final Disposition Report Submission Requirements, 21 July 2014, Incorporating Change 1, 31 October 2014 DoDD 5505.13E, DoD Executive Agent (EA) for the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3), 01 March 2010 DoDI 5505.14, Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Collection Requirements for Criminal Investigations, 27 May 2010, Incorporating Change 1, 24 April 2012 DoDI 5505.15, DoD Contractor Disclosure Program, June 16, 2010, Incorporating Change 1, 08 August 2012 DoDI 5505.16, Criminal Investigations by Personnel Who Are Not Assigned to a Defense Criminal Investigative Organization, 07 May 2012 DoDI 5505.17, Collection, Maintenance, Use, and Dissemination of Personally Identifiable Information and Law Enforcement Information by DoD Law Enforcement Activities, 19 December 2012 DoDI 5505.18, Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense, 25 January 2013, Incorporating Change 2, 18 Jun 15. DoDI 5505.19, Establishment of Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability within the Military Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIOs), 3 February 2015, Incorporating Change 1, 4 September 2015 DoDI 5525.07, Implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between the Departments of Justice (DoJ) and Defense Relating to the Investigation and Prosecution of Certain Crimes, 18 June 2007 DoDI 5525.16, Law Enforcement Defense Data Exchange (LE D-DEx), 29 August 2013 DoDI 5525.18, Law Enforcement Criminal Intelligence (CRIMINT) in DoD, 18 October 2013 DoDI 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program Procedures, 28 March 2013, Incorporating Change 1, 12 February 2014 DTM 14-007, Sexual Assault Incident Response Oversight (SAIRO) Report, 30 September 2014, Incorporating Change 1, 07 October 2014 AFMD 39, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, 07 May 2015  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 23 AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 06 January 2010, Incorporating Change 2, 30 September 2011  AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 05 November 2014 AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program, 29 May 2015 AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 08 October 2009, Incorporating Change 1, 20 September 2010 AFJ 31-304, Enemy Prisoners of War, Retained Personnel, Civilian Internees and Other Detainees, 01 October 1997 AFI 33-115, Air Force Information Technology (IT) Service Management, 16 September 2014 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for Air Force Personnel, 22 May 2007 AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 09 July 2004, Incorporating Change 7, 02 July 2013 AFI 90-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 15 May 2015 AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 06 June 2013, Incorporating AFGM2014-01, 25 September 2014 AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 31 March 2015 AFI 51-1101, The Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program, 21 October 2003, Incorporating Administrative Change, 30 November 2011 AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds, 24 August 2011 AFMAN 31-113, Installation Perimeter Access Control, 02 February 2015 AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 01 June 2012  AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008, Incorporating Change 1, 28 January 2015 SORN F071 AF OSI D, Investigative Information Management System (I2MS) SORN F071 AF OSI E, Air Force Badge and Credentials SORN F071 AF OSI F, Investigative Applicant Processing Records Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication DoJ Form R-84, Final Disposition Report FD 249, Suspect Fingerprint Card Abbreviations and Acronyms AF/JA—Judge Advocate General AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency  24 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive AFME—Armed Forces Medical Examiner AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFOSI ICON—AFOSI Investigation Collections Operations Nexus AFOSI ICON/ICW—AFOSI ICON, Global Watch AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System  ANG—Air National Guard ATF—Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives CAP—Civil Air Patrol CCI—Cyber Crime Investigator CI/CT—counterintelligence/counterterrorism CIA—Central Intelligence Agency  CLEO—Conservation Law Enforcement Official CLEP—Conservation Law Enforcement Program DC3—DoD Cyber Crime Center DCII—Defense Central Index of Investigations DCIS—Defense Criminal Investigative Service DCITA—Defense Cyber Investigations Training Academy DFC—Defense Force Commander DNA—Deoxyribonucleic Acid DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DoJ—Department of Justice DTM—Directive-Type Memorandum DUSD(P)—Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy E.O—Executive Order EPA—Environmental Protection Agency  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 25 EPW—Enemy Prisoner of War FAP—Family Advocacy Program FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation FD—Federal Document FIS—Foreign Intelligence Service FOIA—Freedom of Information Act GSA—General Services Administration HQ—Headquarters  HQ AFOSI/JA—HQ AFOSI, Staff Judge Advocate HQ AFOSI/PA—HQ AFOSI, Public Affairs HQ AFOSI/XILI—HQ AFOSI, Information Release Branch HQ AFOSI/XRZP—HQ AFOSI, Polygraph Branch HQ USAF or HAF—Headquarters Air Force, includes the Secretariat and the Air Staff HUMINT—human intelligence IAW—in accordance with JDET—Joint Drug Enforcement Team JSAT—Joint Sexual Assault Investigative Team JTTF—Joint Terrorism Task Forces LE D-DEx—Law Enforcement Defense Data Exchange MAJCOM—Major Command MCIO—Military Criminal Investigative Organization MCM—Manual for Courts-Martial MEJA—Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act NCIC—National Crime Information Center NCIS—Navy Criminal Investigative Service NSA—National Security Agency O&M—operation and maintenance OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PA—Privacy Act PCA—Polygraph and Credibility Assessment PFCRA—Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act  26 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 PPMO—Polygraph Program Management Office RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RegAF—Regular Air Force ROI—report of investigation RPO—Regional Polygraph Office SAF—Secretariat Offices within the HAF SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force SAF/IG—The Inspector General of the Air Force SAF/IGX—Special Investigations Directorate SAFE—Sexual Assault Forensic Examination SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response SAPR VA —Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator SAR—Suspicious Activity Report SCITP—Sexual Crimes Investigations Training Program SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System SF—Security Forces SJA—Staff Judge Advocate SORN—System of Records Notice SVIP—Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice USACIL—United States Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory USAFSIA—USAF Special Investigations Academy USC—United States Code Terms Abroad—Outside of the United States, its territories, and possessions. An interception abroad takes place when  an individual locates and operates an interception device outside the United States  and  insufficient  evidence  exists  to  conclude  that  the  target  of  the  interception  is  in  the United States. Accidental Death—A death from inadvertent action or action where no harm was intended. Action  Authority—The  authority  primarily  responsible  for  taking  judicial  or  administrative action in an AFOSI investigation, usually an installation commander or higher authority (most often military, but can be a civilian official).  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 27 Active  Duty—Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. This includes members of the Reserve Components serving on active duty or full-time training duty, but does not include full-time National Guard not in Title 10 status. Counterintelligence—Information  gathered  and  activities  conducted to  protect  against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of foreign  governments  or  elements  thereof,  foreign  organizations  or  foreign  persons,  or international terrorist activities. Credible  Information—Information  disclosed  to  or  obtained  by  an  investigator  that, considering  the  source  and  nature  of  the  information  and  the  surrounding  circumstances, reasonably warrants further investigation to determine whether a criminal act did or may have occurred and  is sufficiently believable to indicate criminal activity has occurred. Criminal Investigation—An investigation of possible criminal violations of the United States Code,  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  or,  when  appropriate,  state  or  local  statutes  or ordinances or foreign law. Defense Central Index of Investigations—A computerized, central index of investigations for all DoD investigative activities managed by the Defense Security Services. Detainee—A term used to refer to any person captured or otherwise detained by an armed force. E-Funds—Emergency and Extraordinary Expense Funds used to further the counterintelligence and  investigative  missions  of  the  Air  Force.    This  subdivision  of  operation  and  maintenance (O&M)  funds  is  allocated  to  AFOSI,  through  SAF/IG,  by  the  SECAF  under  certain  legal restrictions  to  reimburse  investigators  for  authorized  expenses  incurred  in  the  performance  of their assigned duties. Electronic  Communication—Any transfer of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds, data, or intelligence  of  any  nature,  transmitted  in  whole  or  in  part  by  a  wire,  radio,  electromagnetic, photo-electronic, or photo-optical system that  affects interstate or  foreign commerce, but does not include the following: any wire or oral communication; any communication made through a tone-only paging device; any communication from a tracking device  as  defined by 18  USC § 3117; electronic funds transfer information stored by a financial institution in a communications system used for the electronic storage and transfer of funds; 18 USC § 2510(12). EPW—One who, while engaged in combat under orders of his or her government, is captured by the armed forces of the enemy. Extract—A verbatim portion or combination of portions of a report of investigation selected for use in a judicial or administrative proceeding. Indexing—The  recording  of  information  so  that  an  orderly  retrieval  process  can  identify  and access a particular file or investigation. Interception—The  aural  or  other  acquisition  of  the  contents  of  any  wire,  electronic,  or  oral communication through use of any electronic, mechanical, or other device.  The term "contents," when used with respect to any wire, oral, or electronic communication, includes any information concerning the substance, purport, or meaning of that communication; 18 USC § 2510(4)  28 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 Liaison  Function—An  official  gathering  with  foreign  or  US  citizens  that  gives  AFOSI personnel  access  to  counterintelligence  or  investigative  sources,  counterparts,  information,  or cooperation. Oral Communication—Any oral communication uttered by a person exhibiting an expectation that  such  communication  is  not  subject  to  interception  under  circumstances  justifying  such expectation, but such term does not include any electronic communication; 18 USC § 2510(2). Pen Register—A device that records or decodes electronic or other impulses which identify the numbers dialed or otherwise transmitted on the telephone line to which such device is attached, but  does  not  include  any  device  used  by  a  provider  or  customer  of  a  wire  or  electronic communication  service  for  billing,  or  recording  as  an  incident  to  billing,  for  communications services provided by such a provider, or any device used by a provider or customer of a wire communication service for cost accounting or other like purposes in the ordinary course of its business; 18 USC § 3127(3). Report of Investigation—The official written record of an AFOSI investigation. The record of all investigations is maintained at HQ AFOSI/XILI and destroyed according to the AF RDS in AFRIMS. Self-Inflicted Death—A death resulting from the actions of the deceased and includes suicide and accidental death. Subject—A person, corporation, legal entity, or organization about which credible information exists  which  would  cause  a  reasonable  person  to  suspect  that  party  had  committed  a  criminal offense, or would make the party the object of a criminal investigation. Subscriber—There is a distinction between user and subscriber.  Although the Government may be the subscriber to the telephone service, it may not be the user.  In cases where the installation is  the  victim,  such  as  bomb  threats  or  electronic  attacks  against  the  base  switch  to  target Government computer systems, the installation commander may be considered the user. Suicide—A death resulting from purposeful action intended to result in one’s own death. Summary—A  condensed  version  of  a  report  of  investigation  that  succinctly  discusses  the allegation and results of the investigation.  It may include copies of statements.  A judicial or administrative proceeding may use a summary. Technical  Surveillance—All activities associated with installing and operating equipment for the audio, optical, or electronic recording or monitoring of people, places, things, data, or any wire, oral, or electronic communication.  Technical surveillance does not include use of viewing equipment  (such  as  binoculars,  night  vision  devices,  or  telephoto  lens-photographic  camera combinations used for viewing only) while conducting a physical surveillance. Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g., Congress, White House, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff).  The requirement is external to Air Force.  Requests for waivers must be processed through command channels to publication OPR for consideration. Tier  1  (T-1)—Non-compliance  puts  Airmen,  commanders  or  the  USAF  strongly  at  risk  of mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. T-1 waiver requests may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM Director, with the concurrence of the publication's approving official.  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 29 Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program degradation  or  failure,  injury,  legal  jeopardy  or  unacceptable  fraud,  waste  or  abuse.    Waivers may  be  granted  at  the  MAJCOM/CC  level,  but  may  not  be  delegated  lower  than  MAJCOM Director. Tier  3  (T-3)—Non-compliance  has  a  relatively  remote  potential  to  create  risk  of  mission  or program  degradation  or  failure,  injury,  legal  jeopardy  or  unacceptable  fraud,  waste  or  abuse. Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level. Titling—Placing the name of a person, corporation, legal entity, organization, or occurrence in the subject block of an investigative report.  Titling is an operational, rather than a legal decision.  Final responsibility for the decision to title an individual or entity rests with AFOSI.  Titling and indexing do not, in and of themselves, imply any degree of guilt or innocence. Trap-and-Trace  Device—A device that identifies the originating number of an instrument or device that transmitted a wire or electronic communication; 18 USC § 3127(4). United States—For this instruction, the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States. US Person—For this instruction, US citizens, aliens admitted to the United States for permanent residence,  corporations  incorporated  in  the  United  States,  and  unincorporated  associations organized in the United States and substantially composed of US citizens or aliens admitted for permanent residence. User—Any  person  or  entity  who  uses  an  electronic  communication  service  and  is  duly authorized by the provider of such service to engage in such use; 18 USC § 2510(13). Wire Communication—Any aural transfer made in whole or in part through the use of facilities for  the  transmission  of  communications  by  the  aid  of  wire,  cable,  or  other  like  connection between the point of origin and the point of reception (including the use of such connection in a switching station) furnished or operated by any person engaged in providing or operating such facilities  for  the  transmission  of  interstate  or  foreign  communications  or  communications affecting interstate or foreign commerce; 18 USC § 2510(1).   30 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 Attachment 2 AFOSI AND SECURITY FORCES INVESTIGATIVE MATRIX Table A2.1.  AFOSI and Security Forces Investigative Matrix RULE If the alleged matter involves: Then contact AFOSI about: Assault & Child Endangerment •Aggravated assault or child endangerment resulting in grievous (see Note 1) bodily harm. •Any assault committed during the commission of another crime investigated by AFOSI. AF Security Forces about: •All other. 1 2 Bad Checks, Forgery & Counterfeiting •Major cases involving the US Treasury or other federal agencies; false documents or credentials manufactured to commit significant fraud/theft or misrepresentation to DoD (e.g., fake education/ medical certificates to gain USAF employment as a physician; fraudulent performance reports, fraudulent identification use to access sensitive/classified areas, etc.). •Insufficient funds checks; minor counterfeiting cases (e.g., fraudulent identification cards used to misrepresent age), and other instances not resulting in significant harm to the DoD. Black Marketing and Customs Violations 3 •Organized criminal enterprises involving significant financial gains. •Major cases involving active investigations with host-nation investigative agencies. •All other cases or as deferred by AFOSI. 4  Bribery Combat Related Inquiries (e.g., LOAC and treaty violations) 5 •All. •All, unless deferred to Security Forces. •None. •None, unless deferred by AFOSI.  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 31 If the alleged matter involves: Then contact AFOSI about: Computer Crimes  •Cases involving downloading and/or distribution of child pornography. •Unauthorized root/user level intrusions to DoD systems. •Illegal interception of computer communications. •Virus/Trojan/denial of service attacks causing significant damage to AF information systems or have major impact on the AF mission. •Alteration of web pages that cause significant damage or disruption to DoD activities. •Computer crimes involving classified information, espionage or terrorism. AF Security Forces about: •Minor incidents. •Cases involving downloading and/or distribution of adult pornography. •Unauthorized personal use of government computers. •General violations of AFMAN 33-152 and AFI 33-115. Crimes Involving DoD & USAF Contracts and Procurement Matters Compromise of USAF Test Materials Deaths •All, unless deferred to Security Forces. •None, unless deferred by AFOSI. •All. •None. •All, except on-base vehicle fatalities where foul play or suicide are not suspected. •All on-base vehicle deaths unless foul play or suicide are suspected. RULE 6 7 8 9  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 Then contact AFOSI about: 1.Sale, transfer, trafficking, or smuggling. 2.Selected use or possession or introduction cases with likelihood of identifying dealers and traffickers. 3.All investigations involving off base activities by persons not subject to the UCMJ. 4.Positive random urinalysis results when a JDET is in place. 5.All cases involving manufacture and cultivation. •All, unless deferred to Security Forces. AF Security Forces about: 6.Simple use, possession or introduction cases when deferred by AFOSI. 7.Cases involving results from random urinalysis when JDET is not in place.  •None, unless deferred by AFOSI. •None, except discharges that result in death/ grievous (see Note 1) bodily harm or when used in the commission of another crime investigated by AFOSI. •All, except discharges which resulted in death or grievous (see Note 1) bodily harm. •None, unless AFOSI specifically assumes investigative responsibility (selected major incidents on a case-by-case basis). •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. •Fugitive and Desertion. •All others. 32 RULE If the alleged matter involves: Drug Offenses 10 11 12 13 14  Environmental Crimes Firearm/Weapon Violations – Unlawful discharge, Unlawful Possession or Concealment Fraudulent Enlistment, Appointment, Discharge or Separation Fugitives, Desertion, Absent Without Leave (AWOL), Failure To Go, Missing Movement AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 33 If the alleged matter involves: Housebreaking, Burglary, Unlawful Entry & Larceny Then contact AFOSI about: •Entry into a SCIF or other controlled/sensitive area. •Involve the commission of another crime investigated by AFOSI. •Cases involving significant losses; determined on a case-by-case basis at the installation level. •Losses exceeding $10,000 (or approximate value as determined by AFOSI). AF Security Forces about: •Local incidents involving base dormitories and housing. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. Impersonation •None, unless committed in conjunction with another crime investigated by AFOSI •All other. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. Improper use or diversion of government property, larceny, larceny by fraud, theft of government property •Controlled pharmaceuticals. •Arms, ammunition or explosives addressed in DoD 5100.76M. •Losses having a direct impact to critical USAF weapons systems. •Classified materials. •Significant losses; determined on a case-by- case basis at the installation level. •Extortion, kidnapping and incidents involving grievous (see Note 1) bodily harm. •Threats to injure or extort money or favors from others where an overt act occurs. •Active participation in extremist/supremacist groups prohibited by AF Instruction(s) unless deferred to Security Forces. •Bomb threats. •Threats to injure or extort money or favors from others where no overt act actually occurs. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. Intimidation/ Threats (extortion, kidnapping, bomb threats, intimidation, bias/hate crimes, active participation in extremist/ supremacist groups) RULE 15 16 17 18  34 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 If the alleged matter involves: Then contact AFOSI about: •None, unless AFOSI specifically assumes investigative responsibility (selected major incidents on a case-by-case basis). AF Security Forces about: •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. •All. •None. Misconduct (various Article 134, UCMJ offenses) not otherwise provided for in this Attachment National Security Matters - Threats and acts of espionage, subversion, terrorism (bombings, hijackings, kidnapping, and thefts of weapons, explosives, and use of weapons of mass destruction) Non-fatal Self- Injurious Events (NFSE) RULE 19 20 21 22 23 24  •None, unless death is a likely future outcome from the NFSE. •All. NOTE: Notify AFOSI if the death is a likely future outcome from the NFSE. •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. Pay-and-Allowance Matters •None, unless AFOSI specifically assumes investigative responsibility (significant losses; determined by AFOSI on a case-by- case basis at the installation level). Perjury •All, unless deferred to Security Forces. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. Postal Violations •Drug smuggling. •Used to commit other offenses (child pornography, major customs violations, etc.). •All others. AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 35 Then contact AFOSI about: •Arson, unless deferred. •Intentional damage to USAF aircraft or Protection Level 1, 2, or 3 resources (see Note 3). •Other incidents involving major damages/losses; determined by AFOSI on a case-by-case basis at the installation level. AF Security Forces about: •Incidents of damage to private property. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. •None, unless specialized circumstances (e.g., involves significant human trafficking, major organized crime activity, etc.) exist and AFOSI specifically assumes investigative responsibility. •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. •All incidents of armed robbery or incidents resulting in grievous (see Note 1) bodily harm. •Incidents in which the perpetrator is not armed. •None, unless Rule 19 applies. •Cases to support command responsibilities according to AFI 16-1404. If the alleged matter involves: Property Destruction, Arson, Bombing, Intentional Damage to USAF Aircraft or Equipment, and Intentional Damage to Government or Private Property Prostitution Robbery Security Violations RULE 25 26 27 28  36 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 RULE 29 If the alleged matter involves: Then contact AFOSI about: Sex Crimes •Rape, Sexual Assault, Aggravated Sexual Contact, and Abusive Sexual Contact, in violation of Article 120. •Forcible Sodomy (oral or anal sex), in violation of Article 125. •Attempts to commit any of the above offenses, in violation of Article 80. •Forcible Pandering, Major Indecent Viewing (e.g., AD Airmen watching a dependent minor undress) and Major Indecent Exposure (e.g., AD Airmen exposing his penis to a dependent minor), in violation of Article 120. •An unprofessional relationship involving an authority figure (see Note 2) and either vaginal intercourse, oral or anal sodomy, digital penetration of the vagina or anus, or the fondling of the genitalia or female breasts, in violation of Article 92. AF Security Forces about: •Stalking, Minor Indecent Viewing (e.g., AD Airmen watching a coworker in the shower) and Minor Indecent Exposure (e.g., AD Airmen mooning peers at a unit function), in violation of Article 120. •An unprofessional relationship involving an authority figure (see Note 2), punishable under Article 92, that does not involve vaginal intercourse, oral or anal sodomy, digital penetration of the vagina or anus, or the fondling of the genitalia or female breasts. •None, unless homicide or suicide is suspected. •All, unless homicide or suicide is suspected. Traffic Offenses – DUI, Impaired Driving, Reckless Driving, Major Accidents, Fleeing the Scene, Eluding Police 30  AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 37 Then contact AFOSI about: If the alleged matter involves: RULE NOTES:  1.  Grievous bodily harm as defined in the UCMJ is serious bodily injury.  It does not include minor injuries such as a black eye or bloody nose, but does include fractured or dislocated bones, deep cuts, torn members of the body, serious damage to internal organs, and other serious body injuries. AF Security Forces about: 2.  Authority figures are defined as: 1.By rank: E9 or O6 and above 2.By Unit Position: First Sergeants, Unit Commanders 3.Superiors, Rating Officials, Supervisors with unit members (AFOSI unit commander can defer appropriate incidents involving Superiors, Rating Officials, Supervisors when the alleged offender is E8 and below or O5 and below) 4.MTL/MTI when the incident or alleged incident involves trainees 5.Official training/PME instructors/staff with students 6.Recruiters when the incident alleged incident involves recruits 7.Cadets in position of authority over junior ranking cadets 8.Medical, psychological, pastoral, legal or other professionals when the alleged incident involves persons receiving their services. 9.Official training instructor, PME instructor, and staff members when the incident or alleged incident involves students. 3.  Protection Level 1, 2, & 3 resources are defined in AFI 31-101.   38 AFI71-101V1  8 OCTOBER 2015 AFOSI AND CONSERVATION LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM INVESTIGATIVE MATRIX Attachment 3 Table A3.1.  AFOSI and Conservation Law Enforcement Program Investigative Matrix. RULE If the alleged matter involves: AF CLEP Official about: Then contact AFOSI about: •None, unless ring type activity is suspected, or the activity involves entry into a controlled/sensitive area. •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. •Incidents involving major damages/losses; determined by AFOSI on a case-by- case basis at the installation level. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. 1 2 Poaching (including endangered or protected species) Destruction or Intentional damage to protected historical or cultural sites Crimes 3  Environmental 4  Wild land fires Forest Product Sales, Grazing/ Cropland Operations 5 •All, unless deferred. •Cases deferred by AFOSI. •Arson, unless deferred. •None, unless involves suspected fraudulent activity. •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. •All, unless assumed by AFOSI. NOTES: 1.  CLEOs should ensure AFOSI is promptly notified prior to the initiation of any criminal investigation. 2.  See AFOSI and Security Forces Investigative matrix at A2.1 for situations involving all other crimes not addressed in this matrix.   