BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 71-101 Volume 2 23 JANUARY 2015 Certified Current On 17 December 2015Special Investigations PROTECTIVE SERVICE MATTERS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   SAF/IGX Supersedes:   AFI71-101V2, 17 May 2011 Certified by: SAF/IGX (Col Jeff H. Hurlbert) Pages: 11 This Instruction implements AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence; DoD Instruction  O-2000.22,  Designation  and  Physical  Protection  of  DoD  High  Risk  Personnel (HRP);.  This  publication  applies  to  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR)  Units,  the  Air  National  Guard (ANG),  and  the  Civil  Air  Patrol  (CAP)  performing  an  Air  Force  assigned  mission.  The authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must  be  routed  to  SAF/IGX  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.    Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  appropriate  chain  of  command.    Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   2  AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES The rewrite removes the reference to rescinded DoDI 5030.34.  Additionally, it identifies tiered waiver  authorities  for  unit  level  compliance  items,  This  revision  removes  instructions  to  report information to the United States Secret Service.  AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015   3  Chapter 1 PROTECTIVE SERVICE PROCEDURES 1.1.  Protective  Services.  AFOSI  will    provide  protective  services,  including  long-term protective  service  operations  (PSOs),  when  the  requester  and  AFOSI  jointly  determine  such protection is needed. (See Attachment 2 for PSO considerations.) (T-1) 1.1.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force,  Inspector  General  (SAF/IG) will resolve all disputes that cannot be resolved between AFOSI and requesters. 1.2.  Responsibilities: 1.2.1.  Air  Force  installation  commanders  are  responsible  for  the  safety  and  security  of  all assigned and visiting personnel. (T-1) 1.2.2.  AFOSI  is  the  lead  agency  within  the  Air  Force  authorized  to  provide  specialized protective services. 1.2.3.  AFOSI units will: 1.2.3.1.  Investigate  threats  against  Air  Force  or  DoD  officials  made  by  Air  Force members. (T-2) 1.2.3.2.  Refer  information  about  similar  threats  by  civilians  to  the  United  States  Secret Service (USSS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). (T-2) 1.2.3.3.  Monitor any resulting investigations affecting the Air Force. (T-2) 1.2.3.4.  Train defense forces on protective support functions. (T-2) 1.2.4.  The AFOSI detail leader, through the AFOSI field unit, can request the assistance of the Installation Defense Force Commander to obtain the following on-base support for PSOs: 1.2.4.1.  Traffic control. 1.2.4.2.  Installation perimeter security and entry and exit control. 1.2.4.3.  Checkpoints, crowd control, and surveillance security posts. 1.2.4.4.  Security for principal's aircraft. 1.2.4.5.  Perimeter security for principal's on-base residence. 1.2.4.6.  Other support which the AFOSI detail leader and the installation Defense Force Commander agree upon. 1.3.  Protection  of  Senior  Air  Force  Officials.  AFOSI will provide a protective service detail (PSD)  to  coordinate  protective  services  and  other  protective  assistance  for  the  Secretary  of  the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and other designated High Risk Personnel (HRP) IAW DoDI O-2000.22. (T-0) 1.3.1.  Installation  commanders  will  not  independently  request  protective  services  for  these officials from their servicing AFOSI office. (T-1)   4  AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015 1.3.2.  AFOSI  will  conduct  a  Protective  Threat  Assessment  (PTA)  for  each  stop  on  the itinerary to determine if these officials require protection. (T-1) 1.3.3.  Local commanders will not initiate protective measures for these officials without the prior approval of the AFOSI Personal Security Advisor (PSA). (T-1) 1.3.4.  AFOSI will complete a Personal Security Vulnerability Assessment (PSVA) for each person  who is nominated for HRP IAW DoDI O-2000.22. (T-0)  PSVAs need to be initiated and completed within 90 days of an individual‘s assignment to an HRP position.  The PSVA are  submitted  to  the  Component  Head  with  a  copy  to  the  HQ  AFOSI/XRC  PSO  Program Manager  (PM)  within  120  days  of  an  officials’  assignment  to  the  position  (See  DoDI  O-2000.22  Enclosure  3).    PSVAs  are  revalidated  annually  and  updated  if  the  threat, vulnerabilities, or terrorism  threat  level  changes.   PSVAs should conform to  the formats  as identified in DoDI O-2000.2. 1.4.  Services  Provided  to  Senior  Air  Force  Officials:  AFOSI  will  provide  a  PSD  as  listed above  in  1.3.  The  Protective  Security  Advisor  (PSA)  will  coordinate  protective  services  and other protective assistance as needed for the respective HRP. (T-1) 1.4.1.  The  appropriate  AFOSI  Field  Investigations  Region  (FIR),  AFOSI  7th  Field Investigative  Squadron  (FIS),  Joint  Base  Andrews,  MD,  or  Investigations  Collection Operations Nexus (ICON), Quantico, VA, will coordinate PTAs with the appropriate AFOSI units, DoD protective service organizations, federal, state, local, and foreign law enforcement and/or security agencies for all travel where the HRP will be off-base or overseas. (T-1) 1.4.2.  The AFOSI PSA will coordinate protective measures for the traveling official at his or her travel destinations, where such protection is deemed appropriate. (T-1) 1.4.3.  The AFOSI PSA will document (via memo for record) all instances where protection is offered and declined. (T-1) 1.4.4.  The  AFOSI  PSA  or  designated  Region  or  FIS  representative  will  provide  monthly inputs  to  HQ  AFOSI/XR,  HQ  AFOSI/XRC,  and  PSO  PM  regarding  location  and  security arrangements for each assigned HRP. (T-1) 1.4.5.  AFOSI  may  provide  annual  antiterrorism  briefings;  specifically  addressing  personal and  family  security,  travel  security,  driving  security,  and  hostage  survival  to  designated HRPs. 1.5.  Travel: 1.5.1.  Based  upon  results  of  the  PTA,  AFOSI  and  the  HRP  or  his/her  designated representative jointly determine the level of security required and submit a request to USD(P) for HRP designation IAW DoDI O-2000.22. 1.5.2.  For  travel,  protective  services  range  from  supplying  the  HRP’s  staff  with  a  point  of contact  list  for the area to be visited, to  a full PSD depending upon the  event,  location and threat  and  approval  by  the  Secretary  or  the  Deputy  Secretary  of  Defense  IAW  DoDI  O-2000.22. 1.6.  Other Services: 1.6.1.  AFOSI  establishes  training  standards  and  ensures  training  is  accomplished  for personnel assigned as drivers for USAF senior leaders. AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015   5  1.6.2.  AFOSI  coordinates  driver  participation  in  the  Threat  Response  Driving  Seminar (TRDS). 1.6.3.  Security Advisors will document all instances where drivers assigned to senior USAF leaders declined attendance in the TRDS. (T-1) 1.7.  Protective Services for Foreign Guests of the DoD and HQ USAF: 1.7.1.  Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Foreign Liaison will notify the appropriate AFOSI  FIR  or  the  AFOSI  7  FIS  and  HQ  AFOSI/XRC,  and  PSO  PM  of  pending  visits  by foreign  guests  of  OSD  which  require  PSO  coverage.  The  appropriate  AFOSI  FIR  or  the AFOSI 7 FIS coordinate a PTA as required for all such visits. 1.7.2.  The Office of the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force, International Affairs Division  (AF/CVAI),  will  notify  HQ  AFOSI/XRC,  and  the  appropriate  AFOSI  FIR  or  the AFOSI  7  FIS  of  pending  visits  by  foreign  guests  of  HQ  USAF,  which  may  require  PSO coverage.  The  appropriate  AFOSI  FIR  or  7  FIS  coordinate  a  PTA  as  required  for  all  such visits. 1.7.3.  Based upon the results of the PTA, AFOSI and the tasking office (OSD or AF/CVAI) will  jointly  determine  the  scope  and  size  of  the  PSD  that  is  in  the  best  interest  of  the  Air Force and DoD.  AFOSI 7 FIS will coordinate with HQ AFOSI/XRC PSO PM, and any other affected AFOSI offices, concerning the security requirements for the visiting dignitary. (T-1) 1.8.  Protective Assistance to Other DoD Agencies: 1.8.1.  The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy determines the level of protection afforded to  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (SECDEF)  and  Deputy  SECDEF,  and  all  HRPs  outside  the United  States  and  may  task  military  departments  for  necessary  assistance  in  providing  this protection.    The  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Homeland  Defense  and  Americas’ Security  Affairs  (ASD/HD&ASA))  determines  the  level  of  protection  afforded  to  all  HRPs inside the United States. 1.8.2.  Air Force personnel who learn of a specific threat against any HRP will immediately notify  the  local  AFOSI  unit  who  will  notify  the  AFOSI  Watch.  (T-1)    Air  Force  personnel who learn of a specific threat against the CJCS will immediately notify the local AFOSI unit. (T-1)  The  AFOSI  Watch  will  notify  the  respective  PSA  for  the  affected  HRP  Executive Assistant to the CJCS. (T-1) 1.8.3.  AFOSI  maintains  liaison  with  the  other  DoD  protective  service  organizations  and, when resources permit,  provide assistance to them when their principals visit US Air Force bases or areas where AFOSI has primary jurisdiction. 1.9.  Protection  of  Other  Officials  or  Dignitaries.  When  necessary,  and  when  resources permit,  AFOSI  works  with  other  federal,  state,  and  local  agencies  to  protect  officials  or dignitaries visiting a US Air Force installation or attending a US Air Force event. 1.10.  Protection of Victims and Witnesses: 1.10.1.  AFOSI  refers  to  AFI  51-201,  Administration  of  Military  Justice,  concerning  their responsibility for the protection of victims and witnesses.   6  AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015 1.10.2.  Commanders  may  request  an  AFOSI  PSO  for  victims  and  witnesses  only  in extraordinary cases where specialized protective  measures  are required,  and when there  are specific threats against those individuals. AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015   7  Chapter 2 ARMORED VEHICLE PROGRAM 2.1.  Responsibilities: 2.1.1.  SAF/IG will: 2.1.1.1.  Exercise  oversight  responsibility  for  all  special  vehicle  acquisitions  needed  to combat the terrorist threat via SAF/IGX. 2.1.1.2.  Review and approve command supplements to this Instruction via SAF/IGX. 2.1.2.  Major commands (MAJCOM) and field operating agencies (FOA) will: 2.1.2.1.  Establish a focal point for command-assigned AVs. 2.1.2.2.  Submit  special  vehicle  requests  in  response  to  terrorist  threats  to  SAF/IGX  for validation  before  being  sent  to  the  Materiel  Support  Division,  Directorate  of  Logistics (AF/A4LR). 2.1.2.3.  Fund  transportation  costs  incurred  as  a  result  of  command  initiated  transfers, reallocations, or deployments of AVs. 2.1.2.4.  Fund maintenance and repair of AVs. 2.1.3.  HQ AFOSI/LG will: 2.1.3.1.  Manage  the  AFOSI  heavy  armored  vehicle  (HAV)  fleet  to  obtain  the  greatest flexibility in protecting all high-risk personnel. 2.1.3.2.  Allocate  AFOSI  HAVs  subject  to  the  concurrence  of  the  regional  unified commanders or their designated security elements. 2.1.3.3.  Coordinate tactical deployments of AVs with supported commands. 2.1.3.4.  Determine when to use an AV to protect high-risk personnel by considering the factors  in  Attachment  4,  paragraph  A4.3.  and  the  possibility  of  using  a  light  armored vehicle (LAV) instead of an HAV. 2.1.3.5.  Establish  agreements  with  the  supported  commands  to  ensure  continuity  of support. 2.1.3.6.  Evaluate AVs and protective systems. 2.1.3.7.  Provide or certify specialized antiterrorism defensive and evasive driver courses (e.g.  the  Senior  Officer  Security  Seminar,  TRDS,  AFOSI  PSO  course,  or  other  training provided  by  a  certified  driving  instructor).  NOTE:  Driving  of  HAVs  is  restricted  to authorized  individuals  trained  in  defensive  and  evasive  driving  techniques.  Authorized individuals  include,  but  are  not  limited  to:  military  member  or  person  occupying  high- risk  billets  (does  not  include  any  dependents),  Security  Forces,  AFOSI  special  agents, Logistics  Readiness  Squadron  personnel,  and  foreign  nationals  assigned  as  drivers  for individuals  in  high-risk  billets.  Other  individuals  may  be  authorized  (in  writing)  on  a case-by-case basis depending on specific circumstances surrounding the use of the HAV   8  AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015 in  their  respective  area  of  responsibility.  All  drivers  must  have  successfully  completed specialized antiterrorism defensive and evasive driver training. 2.1.3.8.  Prepare  current  threat  assessments  to  accompany  installation  commanders' requests for vehicle requirements resulting from terrorist threats. 2.1.3.9.  Provide  hands-on  orientation  to  drivers  and  maintenance  personnel  on  the operation and special care required for AVs. 2.1.3.10.  Establish a focal point for command assigned AVs. 2.2.  AV Logistics and Alternate Considerations: 2.2.1.  Procurement of HAVs will be handled according to  DoD Directive C-4500.51, DoD Commercially  Procured  and  Leased  Armored  Vehicle  Policy  and  AFI  24-302,  Vehicle Management. 2.2.2.  When warranted by the local threat, achieve transportation security objectives through selective  use  of  LAVs,  unarmored  indigenous  vehicles,  vehicle  painting  and  marking exemptions, and domicile-to-duty transportation. Refer to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. 2.2.3.  HAV drivers will not exceed the armoring firm's recommended top speed, as armoring adds significantly to a vehicle's weight and required stopping distance. (T-3) 2.2.4.  Due  to  the  sensitivity  of  nontactical  AV  transparent  armor  to  interior  heat  build-up, direct  sunlight,  and  ultraviolet  light,  garage  AVs  whenever  practical.  As  a  minimum,  place them  under  cover,  such  as  a  carport,  to  prevent  long-term  damage.  Prolonged  exposure causes delamination and loss of the rated ballistic defeat capabilities of the transparent armor. 2.2.5.  Once  a  vehicle  is  determined  to  be  excess  or  unserviceable  by  the  host  vehicle maintenance activity, AFOSI/LG will: 2.2.5.1.  Attempt to reallocate any serviceable excess AV in accordance with AFI 24-302. 2.2.5.2.  Identify  AVs  which  are  determined  to  be  excess  to  the  command  or unserviceable to AFELM/VEMSO for disposition processing and instructions.  GREGORY A.BISCONE, Lieutenant General, USAF The Inspector General AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015   9  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012 AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008, incorporating change 2, 11 May 2012 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, 1 March 2000, incorporating AFGM 2014-01, 17 July 2014 AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 21 September 2012 AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 6 June 2013, incorporating AFGM 2014-01, 25 September 2014 AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010, incorporating change 2, 30 September 2011 DoDI C-4500.51, DoD Commercially Procured and Leased Armored Vehicle Policy, July 25 2007 DoDI O-2000.22, Designation and Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel (HRP), June 19 2014 DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, October 2 2006 Title 18, United States Code, Section 3056 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Terms Detail  Leader—A special agent, Air Force Office of Special  Investigations (AFOSI), assigned overall  responsibility  for  the  personal  safety  and  security  of  a  principal  during  a  protective service  operation  (PSO).  The  detail  leader  is  authorized  to  make  decisions  on  all  matters concerning the immediate personal safety and security of the principal. Distinguished  Visitor  (DV)—A  guest  of  the  US  Air  Force  or  DoD  who,  by  virtue  of  rank  or position, receives honors or protocol. Fully Armored Vehicles—These vehicles are referred to as nontactical heavy armored vehicles (HAV).  HAVs  are  commercially  designed  and  manufactured,  fully  armored  configured,  motor vehicles procured especially to   provide  security  protection  to   certain  key  DoD  officials or visiting dignitaries. High-Risk  DoD  Personnel—US  personnel  and  their  family  members      whose  grade, assignment,  travel  itinerary,  or  symbolic  value  may  make  them  an  especially  attractive  or accessible terrorist target.   10  AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015 Partially Armored Vehicles—These motor vehicles are referred to as nontactical light armored vehicles  (LAV).  MAJCOMs  obtain  standard  vehicles  through  normal  procurement  channels  to fulfill valid transportation requirements and later alter them by affixing armoring materials to the windows and body areas. Personnel  Security  Advisor—  An  individual  assigned  to  an  HRP’s  staff  to  evaluate  and recommend improvements to the HRP’s security posture, particularly in planning foreign travel, as required.  When the HRP travels, the PSA collects threat data, recommends security measures, and requests additional PSD support as appropriate. Personal Security Vulnerability Assessment—An assessment to determine the vulnerability of a  particular  individual  to  an  attack.  Identifies  specific  areas  of  improvement  to  withstand, mitigate, or deter acts of violence or terrorism against the individual. Primary Agency—A law enforcement, security, or investigative agency with overall responsibility (as  established by law or directive) for providing protective  services for a principal. Principal—Another  name  for  the  High  Risk  Personnel  of  a  protective  service  operation.  A principal may or may not be a distinguished visitor (DV). Protective Service—A specialized activity, which increases the personal safety and security of a distinguished  visitor  or  other  principal.  The  activity  may  be  limited  to  a  protective  threat assessment or may extend to a major PSO involving considerable manpower and resources. Protective  Service  Operation  (PSO)—The  use  of  specialized  techniques  and  procedures  by trained  personnel  to  ensure  a  principal’s  personal  safety  and  security  during  a  specific  event, while traveling, or over an extended period of time. PSO-Long  Term—Any  PSO  which  lasts  longer  than  30  days  and  does  not  have  a  known termination date. Usually, AFOSI conducts such operations to protect against a specific threat or vulnerability when the principal cannot be relocated. Protective Threat Assessment (PTA)—Collecting and analyzing information to identify direct and potential threats to harm, seize, interfere with, or embarrass a specific principal, as well as to determine the existing and anticipated security environment. A PTA is always the initial phase of a PSO. Terrorist Threat Levels—Terrorist threat levels are derived as a result of analyzing the operational capability, intent, activity and operating environment of terrorist groups or individuals. --  High—Anti-U.S.  terrorist  group  is  operationally  active  and  uses  large  casualty  producing attacks  as  their  preferred  method  of  operation.  There  is  a  substantial  DoD  presence  and  the operating environment favors the terrorist.  --  Significant—Anti-U.S.  terrorist  is  operationally  active  and  attack  personnel  as  their  preferred method of operation or a group uses large casualty producing attacks as their preferred method and has limited operational activity. The operating environment is neutral.  --  Moderate—Terrorist  groups  are  present  but  there  is  no  indication  of  anti-U.S.  activity.  The operating environment favors the Host Nation/U.S.  -- Low—No terrorist group is detected or the group activity is non-threatening. AFI71-101V2  23 JANUARY 2015   11  Attachment 2 PSO CONSIDERATIONS A2.1.  Responsibilities.  The  Air  Force  may  protect  its  leaders  and  official  guests  from  acts which jeopardize their safety and security or impede their mission. A2.1.1.  The  US  Government  holds  host  foreign  governments  responsible  for  the  safety  of US citizens overseas. The US Air Force may provide protective services off base in overseas areas only under circumstances that conform to local Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA), treaties, agreements, or laws. A2.1.2.  AFOSI is the focal point within the USAF for all liaison activity with the USSS, the Department  of  State  Office  of  Security  (DOS/SY),  and  all  other  federal,  state,  and  local agencies regarding protective service missions. A2.2.  Protecting Others: A2.2.1.  AFOSI  may  provide  protection  to  family  members  of  a  HRP  when    authorized  by the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary of Defense or USD(P). A2.2.2.  AFOSI may not  provide support or services for non-Air  Force or non-DoD related principals in an off-base environment without specific approval from Secretary or the Deputy Secretary of Defense or USD(P). A2.3.  Requesting  Protective  Services.  Request  AFOSI    protective    services    only    in    the following situations: A2.3.1.  There is a clear and direct threat to a specific individual. A2.3.2.  An  Air  Force  leader  or  official  guest  must  perform  a  mission  in  an  environment which places that person at significant and abnormal risk, in other than a wartime situation. A2.3.3.  When in support of a long term PSO conducted for HRP protectee, AFOSI PSOs are initiated only for noncombatant senior Air Force officials required to be there temporarily for fact-finding or other essential reasons.  Other senior military officials will be protected only if specifically requested or directed by the Theater Commander. A2.4.  Advisors.  AFOSI  and  installation  Defense  Force  Commanders  serve  as  key  advisors  to commanders in determining reasonable protective measures. A2.5.  Authority.  Final  authority  rests  with  the  AFOSI  PSO/PSA/Detail  Leader  to  make  all decisions  affecting  the  safety  and  security  of  the  principal  and  AFOSI  protective  service personnel.  