BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 71-101 VOLUME 4 26 JANUARY 2015Certified Current On 17 December 2015 Special Investigations COUNTERINTELLIGENCE COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   SAF/IGX Supersedes:  AFI71-101V4, 8 November 2011 Certified by: SAF/IGX (Col Jeff H. Hurlbert) Pages: 29 This  volume  implements  AFPD  71-1,  Criminal  Investigations  and  Counterintelligence,  and provides  guidance  for  conducting  counterintelligence  activities.   It  further  implements requirements  as  identified  in  DoD  Instruction  S-5105.63  Implementation  of  DoD  Cover  and Cover  Support  Activities,  DoDD  5240.01,  DoD  Intelligence  Activities,  DoD  Manual  5200.01 Volume  3,  DoD  Information  Security  Program:  Protection  of  Classified  Information,  DoD Instruction  3305.11,  DoD  Counterintelligence  (CI)  Training,  DoD  Instruction  5240.04, Counterintelligence (CI) Investigations, DoD Directive 5240.06, Counterintelligence Awareness, and  Reporting  (CIAR),  DoD  Instruction  S-5240.09,  Offensive  Counterintelligence  Operations (U), DoD Instruction 5240.10, Counterintelligence (CI) in the Combatant Commands and Other DoD  Components,  DoD  Instruction  S-5240.17,  DoD  Counterintelligence  Collection  Activities (CCA),  DoD  Instruction  5240.18,  Counterintelligence  (CI)  Analysis  and  Production,  DoD Instruction  5240.19,  Counterintelligence  Support  to  the  Defense  Critical  Infrastructure Program,  DoD  Instruction  O-5240.21,  Counterintelligence  (CI)  Inquires  (U),  DoD  Instruction 5240.22,  Counterintelligence  Support  to  Force  Protection,    DoD    Instruction  S-5240.23, Counterintelligence Instruction  O-5240.24, Counterintelligence  (CI)  Activities  Supporting  Research,  Development,  and  Acquisition  (RDA), DoD Instruction 5240.26, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, Countering  Espionage,  International  Terrorism,  and  the  Counterintelligence    (CI)    Insider  Threat,  DoD  Instruction  5240.27,  Joint  Counterintelligence  Training  Academy  (JCITA),  DoD  Instruction    C-5240.08,    Counterintelligence  (CI)  Security  Classification  Guide  (U),  DTM  08-in  Cyberspace (CI)  Activities (U),  DoD   2  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 011,  Intelligence  Oversight  Policy  Guidance,  and  DTM  08-052,  DoD  Guidance  for  Reporting Questionable Intelligence Activities and Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units, the Air National Guard (ANG), and the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) performing an Air Force assigned mission.   Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction in Chapter 3 by military  personnel  is  a  violation  of  Article  92,  Failure  to  Obey  Order  or  Regulation,  Uniform Code of Military Justice. Similarly, failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of  this  instruction  in  Chapter  3  by  civilian  employees  may  result  in  administrative  disciplinary action  under  applicable  civilian  personnel  instructions  without  regard  to  otherwise  applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements  in  this  publication  are  identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for non-tiered compliance items.    This  publication  may  be  supplemented  at  any  level,  but  all  direct  supplements  must  be routed  to  SAF/IGX  for  coordination  prior  to  certification  and  approval.  Refer  recommended changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  OPR  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through appropriate chain of command.   This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and or maintain the  records  prescribed  in  this  publication  is  Title  10,  U.S.  Code,  Sections  801-940.    Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.  The applicable Privacy Act System Notice F071 AF OSI A, Counterintelligence Operations and Collections Records is available online at:  http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance with  the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES The publication has been revised.  This rewrite of AFI 71-101 Volume 4 includes implementing requirements  for  DoD  Instruction  5240.06,  Counterintelligence  Awareness,  and  Reporting (CIAR),  DoDI  5240.19,  Counterintelligence  Support  to  the  Defense  Critical  Infrastructure Program, and DoDI 5240.27, Joint Counterintelligence Training Academy (JCITA).  Tables 3.1 through  3.3  were  added  to  identify  reportable  contacts,  activities,  indicators,  behaviors,  and cyber threats IAW DoDI  5240.06.  Finally, this revision identifies Tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance items.      Chapter 1—RESPONSIBILITIES    1.1. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).   .....................................  1.2. Investigations, Collections and Operations Nexus (ICON).   ..................................  5 5 5 AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   3  1.3. AFOSI Liaisons to the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF).    1.4. Defense Cyber Crime Center (DC3).   .....................................................................  Chapter 2—COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AWARENESS AND BRIEFING PROGRAM    2.1. Air Force Awareness and Briefing Programs.   .......................................................  2.2. Briefings.  ................................................................................................................  2.3. CI Briefers.  .............................................................................................................  2.4. Critical Program Information.   ................................................................................  2.5. Personnel with Access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) and Special Access Programs (SAP).   ...........................................................................  2.6. Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP).   ..................................................  Chapter 3—REPORTABLE INFORMATION AND CONTACTS    3.1. Reportable Information and Contacts.   ...................................................................  Table  3.1. Reportable Foreign Intelligence Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors.     Table  3.2. Reportable International Terrorism Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors   ...............................................................................................................  Table  3.3. Reportable FIE-Associated Cyberspace Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors   ...............................................................................................................  3.2. Responsibility to Report Incidents.   ........................................................................  3.3. Sanctions.   ...............................................................................................................  Chapter 4—COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM    4.1. Counterintelligence Investigations.   ........................................................................  4.2. Offensive Counterintelligence Operations.   ............................................................  4.3. Counterintelligence Analysis and Production.   .......................................................  4.4. AF Counterintelligence Collections & Reporting.   .................................................  4.5. Counterintelligence Support to Force Protection (FP).   ..........................................  4.6. Digital and Multimedia Forensics.   .........................................................................  4.7. Classifying Counterintelligence Information.   ........................................................  4.8. Acquiring Intelligence Information about U.S. Persons.   .......................................  4.9. Use of Specialized Techniques in Counterintelligence Investigations and Operations Targeting U.S. Persons.   .......................................................................  4.10.  Other Operational Techniques targeting U.S. Persons.   .........................................  4.11. Interceptions of Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications.   ................................  4.12.  Operations targeting Non-U.S. Persons.   ................................................................  5 6 7 7 7 7 8 8 8 9 9 9 11 11 12 12 14 14 14 14 15 15 16 16 16 17 20 20 21   4  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 4.13.  Operations targeting Non-U.S. persons within the U.S.   ........................................  4.14.  Operations targeting Non-U.S. persons outside the U.S.   .......................................  4.15.  Sources.   ..................................................................................................................  4.16.  Using Emergency and Extraordinary Expense Funds (E-Funds).   .........................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION     21 21 22 22 23 AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   5  Chapter 1 RESPONSIBILITIES 1.1.  The  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  (AFOSI).  The  AFOSI  is  the  sole  Air Force  organization  authorized  to  conduct  counterintelligence  (CI)  investigations,  operations, collections,  functional  services  and  other  related  activities.  All  AFOSI  personnel  engaged  in conducting  CI  activities  must  attend  and  satisfactorily  complete  commensurate  formal  CI training approved by the Department of Defense or a Military Department. (T-0) 1.1.1.  AFOSI’s CI authorities primarily derive from Executive Order 12333, § 1.7(f)(1-4). 1.1.2.  In  the  U.S.,  AFOSI  coordinates  these  activities  with  the  Federal  Bureau  of Investigation (FBI) when appropriate. 1.1.3.  Outside  the  United  States,  AFOSI  coordinates  these  activities  with  the  Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the FBI as appropriate. 1.1.4.  The exercise of these authorities may be under the Operational Control (OPCON) of the  Combatant  Commander  (CCDR)  when  specified  by  a  military  operation  or  operation order.  The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) retains administrative control for those Air Force CI resources under OPCON of the CCDR. 1.1.5.  AFOSI  notifies  and  provides  briefings  to  appropriate  command  officials  on  CI investigations that require determinations on continuing access to classified information and other personnel security actions. 1.2.  Investigations, Collections and Operations Nexus (ICON).  The ICON is the Air Force's sole  reporting  integration  mechanism  for  matters  pertaining  to  CI,  investigations,  and  threats from  foreign  intelligence  entities  (FIE),      international  terrorists,  cyberspace  actors,  and unauthorized disclosures.  The ICON provides timely investigative data and threat reporting data to  the  Commander,  AFOSI,  and  other  senior  AF  and  DoD  leaders.  The  ICON  is  organized  by regional  and  specialty  desks,  which  receive    and    synchronize    information    received    from  AFOSI  field  units  and  other  U.S. Government agencies.  The ICON manages AFOSI's Global Watch, which receives up-channel reporting from AFOSI field units; the ICON’s Global Watch also  coordinates  with  other  Air  Force,  DoD,  and  U.S.  Government  Watches.      The  ICON coordinates investigative and CI activities with  AF human intelligence (HUMINT) activities as necessary. 1.3.  AFOSI Liaisons to the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF).  The NCIJTF is a national task force led by the FBI.  The Task Force is comprised of representatives from the FBI, DCIOs, NSA, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), other IC partners, and USG CI entities.  The  NCIJTF  is  responsible  for  coordinating  LE/CI/IC  activities  with  an  eye  towards unity of effort against cyber adversaries. AFOSI Liaisons assigned and/or detailed to the NCIJTF identify  issues  with  nexus  to  the  USAF  that  require  investigative  activity;  identify  targets  for proactive  action  by  AFOSI;  deconflict  AFOSI  investigative  activities  with  other  NCIJTF partners;  enable  information  sharing,  joint  operations,  and  interagency  integration;  and participate  in  NCIJTF  Threat  Focus  Cells.  AFOSI  Liaisons  to  the  NCIJTF  will  provide  all NCIJTF requests for investigative assistance to AFOSI ICON, Cyber Integration Desk, who will task the appropriate AFOSI element. (T-0)   6  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 1.4.  Defense Cyber Crime Center (DC3).  Pursuant to DoDD 5505.13E, DoD Executive Agent (EA) for the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3), and IAW AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence,  DC3  functions  as  the  DoD    Center    of    Excellence    for    digital    and  multimedia    forensics    and    operates    as    a    law  enforcement  and  counterintelligence  support activity.  Component elements of DC3 provide a broad range of support to AFOSI and DoD CI programs. 1.4.1.  Defense Cyber Investigations Training Academy (DCITA).  DCITA provides a Cyber CI Track with courses focused on educating and improving the effectiveness of AFOSI and DoD Cyber CI personnel. 1.4.2.  Defense Cyber Crime Institute (DCCI).  DCCI is the research, development, test and evaluation  (RDT&E)  component  of  DC3.    DCCI  develops  and  certifies  digital/multi-media (D/MM)  forensic  tools  for  use  by  AFOSI  and  DoD  CI,  intelligence,  law  enforcement, information assurance, and information operations personnel. 1.4.3.  Defense  Computer  Forensics  Laboratory  (DCFL).    DCFL  supports  AFOSI  and  DoD counterintelligence  investigations  and  operations  at  the  field  level  through  the  forensic analysis of digital devices and media. 1.4.4.  DC3 Analytical Group (AG).  As a member agency with the NCIJTF, the AG leads a collaborative  analytical  and  technical  exchange  with  subject  matter  experts  from  AFOSI, DoD,  and  other  Federal  CI,  intelligence,  and  law  enforcement  agencies  to  build  a  threat picture enabling proactive CI and law enforcement cyber operations focused on nation-state threat  actors.    To  enable  and  improve  this  capability,  AFOSI  will  provide  DC3,  to  the maximum  extent  possible,  copies  of  digital  media  and  logs  and  investigative  and  technical data associated with CI cyber intrusion incidents, investigations, and operations. (T-0) AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   7  Chapter 2 COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AWARENESS AND BRIEFING PROGRAM 2.1.  Air  Force  Awareness  and  Briefing  Programs.  Air    Force    awareness    and    briefing programs  promote  threat    and    reporting    awareness    responsibility  and  enable    Air    Force personnel  to  identify  threats  as  well  as  the  reporting  of  suspicious  situations  and  incidents  to appropriate authorities. 2.2.  Briefings.  Air  Force  commanders  should  ensure  their  personnel  are  briefed  on  threats related   to   foreign   intelligence   entities   (FIE),   international   terrorists,   cyberspace,   and unauthorized  disclosures.  This  awareness  effort  should  emphasize  individual  reporting responsibilities. These briefings include a detailed discussion about insider threats, the crimes of espionage and treason, and standards discussed in this instruction. 2.2.1.  Air    Force    commanders    seek    to    instill    in    their    personnel    a    high    level    of awareness  of  the  threat  to  classified,  sensitive,  and  proprietary  information  from  all unauthorized  sources,  foreign  or  domestic,  as  well  as  from  inadvertent  or  deliberate disclosures by cleared personnel. 2.2.2.  Highlight  cyber threats  to  include indicators of FIE  exploitation  of people, programs and resources during all CI awareness, briefing, and reporting programs in accordance with DoDI  S-5240.23,  Counterintelligence  (CI)  Activities  in  Cyberspace  (U).    Examples  of indicators of potential threat activity are listed within DoDI S-5240.23. Also refer to current cyber threat assessments posted on AFOSI’s SIPRNET webpage. 2.2.3.  Military  personnel  must  receive  the  briefing  at  or  near  the  time  of  initial  entry. Recurring  briefings  are  required  at  least  every  12  months  or  upon  permanent  change  of station – whichever is less. (T-0) 2.2.4.  Civilian employees must receive the briefing at or near the time of initial entry or hire. Recurring  briefings  occur  at  least  every  12  months  or  upon  permanent  change  of  station  – whichever is less. (T-0) 2.2.5.  The Air Education and Training Command (AETC) provides military members with their initial awareness briefing during basic training or pre-commissioning programs. 2.2.6.  Air Force commanders ensure that military personnel entering the Air Force directly, through means other than AETC, and all civilian personnel receive the briefing during their initial  assignment.    More  frequent  briefing  intervals  should  be  instituted  if  conditions warrant, and some personnel may require more frequent briefings predicated on the nature of their duties. 2.2.7.  AFOSI  is  the  installation-level  training  agency  for  counterintelligence  awareness briefings.    If  AFOSI  does  not  provide  the  training,  AFOSI  ensures  the  training  provided meets requirements. 2.3.  CI Briefers.  CI briefers should tailor the briefing for the audience and take into account the security requirements associated with the subject matter.  The briefing should include: 2.3.1.  The  threat  posed  by  foreign  intelligence,  foreign  government-sponsored  commercial enterprises, all pertinent terrorist threats, and international narcotics trafficking organizations.   8  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 2.3.2.  Information  about  early  detection  of  espionage,  foreign  intelligence  indicators,  and international terrorist activities. 2.3.3.  Detailed  information  regarding  the  crimes  of  sabotage,  subversion,  treason,  and espionage. 2.3.4.  Relevant  and  current  threats  facing  the  specific  installation,  mission,  functions, activities, and locations with which the audience is associated. 2.3.5.  The  reporting  requirements  of  this  instruction  as  well  as  those  described  in  DoDD 5240.06. 2.3.5.1.  Personnel  shall  report  information  pursuant  to  E.O.  13526,  Classified  National Security  Information,  and  DoDI  5200.2,  DoD  Personnel  Security  Program,  concerning security  violations  and  other  information  with  potentially  serious  security  significance regarding  someone  with  access  to  classified  information  or  who  is  employed  in  a sensitive position. (T-0) 2.4.  Critical  Program  Information.  Acquisition  program  personnel  working  with  Critical Program Information pursuant to AFPD 71-1 and DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection within the Department of Defense, shall notify AFOSI of all projected foreign travel prior to departure. Such personnel will receive foreign intelligence and antiterrorism threat briefings prior to overseas travel. (T-0) Upon completion of travel, personnel will contact AFOSI to schedule a debriefing. (T-0) 2.5.  Personnel  with  Access  to  Sensitive  Compartmented  Information  (SCI)  and  Special Access  Programs (SAP).  Pursuant to Director of Central Intelligence Instruction (DCID) 1/20, Security  Policy  Concerning  Travel  and  Assignment  of  Personnel  with  Access  to  Sensitive Compartmented  Information  (SCI)  and  Revision  1  Department  of  Defense  Overprint  to  the National  Industrial  Security  Program  Operating  Manual  Supplement,  personnel  with  SCI  and special access  incur special security obligations that  include advance foreign travel  notification for  official  and/or  unofficial  travel  and  defensive  travel  briefings.    Upon  completion  of  travel, personnel  will  contact  AFOSI  to  schedule  a  debriefing.  (T-0)      Personnel  with  special  access  should  contact  their  servicing  AFOSI-PJ  field  office  IAW  DoD  5205.11,  Management, Administration, and Oversight  of DoD Special Access Programs  (SAPS); & AF  Instruction 16-701, Management, Administration, and Oversight of Special Access Programs. 2.6.  Defense  Critical  Infrastructure  Program  (DCIP).  AFOSI  will  provide  proactive  and comprehensive CI support to the Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP), to include the full spectrum  of  CI  activities.  (T-0)    AFOSI  will  also  provide  comprehensive,  timely  reporting  of potential foreign threat incidents, events, and trends to DCIP authorities and the DoD Components  to  support  the  DoD  critical infrastructure program IAW DoDI 5240.19 and law. (T-0) 2.6.1.  Personnel assigned  to  or  supporting  an  identified  DCIP  critical asset, pursuant to  DoDD 5143.01, DoDD 0-5240.02, DoDD 3020.40, and DoDI 5240.19,  Counterintelligence Support to the  Defense  Critical  Infrastructure  Program  (DCIP),  will  receive  an  annual  CI  Awareness Briefing at a minimum. (T-0) Such personnel will notify AFOSI of all projected foreign travel or foreign  visits  prior  to  the  event  and  will  receive  foreign  intelligence  threat  briefings  prior  to foreign visits and foreign travel.  (T-0)  Additionally, personnel projected for foreign travel will receive antiterrorism threat briefings prior to overseas travel. (T-0) Upon completion of foreign travel or a foreign visit, these personnel will contact AFOSI to schedule a debriefing. (T-0) AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   9  Chapter 3 REPORTABLE INFORMATION AND CONTACTS 3.1.  Reportable  Information  and  Contacts.  AFOSI  is  the  sole  Air  Force  repository  for  the collection  and  retention  of  reportable  information  as  described  below.  Individuals  who  have reportable  contacts  or  acquire  reportable  information  must  immediately  (within  30  days  of  the contact)  report  the  contact  or  information,  either  verbally  or  in  writing,  to  AFOSI.  (T-0)    If necessary,  the  individual  can  report  the  information  to  his/her  commander,  supervisor,  or security officer who immediately provides the information to their servicing AFOSI field office.  For the purpose of this paragraph, “contact” means any exchange of information directed to  an individual including solicited or unsolicited telephone calls, text messages, interaction via social media  and  networking  websites,  e-mail,  radio  contact,  or  other  means that  enable communications  to  include  face-to-face  discussions.  This  does  not  include  contact  by  “mass media”  such  as  television  or  radio  broadcasts,  public  speeches,  or  other  means  not  directed  at specific individuals.  It also does not include contact as part of the official duties of the member.   However,  nothing  in  this  paragraph  replaces  or  eliminates  reporting  required  as  part  of  official duties. 3.1.1.  Tables  3.1  through  3.3  contain  reportable  contacts,  activities,  indicators,  behaviors, and cyber threats associated with FIEs, International Terrorism, and Cyberspace IAW DoDD 5240.06 Table 3.1.  Reportable Foreign Intelligence Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors. Personnel  who  fail  to  report  the  contacts,  activities,  indicators,  and  behaviors  in  items  1 through 22 may be subject to judicial and/or administrative action in accordance with para. 3.3 of this instruction. The activities in items 23 and 24 are reportable, but  failure to report these activities solely may not serve as the basis for punitive action under Article 92, UCMJ.  Reportable Foreign Intelligence Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors  1. When not related to official duties, contact with anyone (regardless of nationality) known or believed to have information of planned, attempted, actual, or suspected espionage,  sabotage,  subversion,  or  other  intelligence  activities  against  the Department  of  the  Air  Force,  other  DoD  or  U.S.  facilities,  organizations, personnel, or information systems. Contact with an individual who is known or suspected of being associated with a foreign  intelligence  or  security  organization,  to  include  attachés  from  any  other country. Visits to foreign diplomatic facilities that are unexplained or inconsistent with an individual’s official duties. See Note 1.  Acquiring,  or  permitting  others  to  acquire,  unauthorized  access  to  classified  or sensitive information systems.  Attempts  to  obtain  classified  or  sensitive  information  by  an  individual  not authorized to receive such information.  Persons attempting to obtain access to sensitive information inconsistent with their 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.   10  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24.  duty requirements.  Attempting  to  expand  access  to  classified  information  by  volunteering  for assignments or duties beyond the normal scope of responsibilities.  Discovery  of  suspected  listening  or  surveillance  devices  in  classified  or  secure areas.  Unauthorized  possession  or  operation  of  cameras,  recording  devices,  computers, and communication devices where classified information is handled or stored.  Discussions of classified information over a non-secure communication device. Reading or discussing classified or sensitive information in a location where such activity is not permitted.  Transmitting  or  transporting  classified  information  by  unsecured  or  unauthorized means.  Removing or sending classified or sensitive material out of secured areas without proper authorization.  Unauthorized  storage  of  classified  material,  regardless  of  medium  or  location,  to include unauthorized storage of classified material at home.  Unauthorized  copying,  printing,  faxing,  e-mailing,  or  transmitting  classified material.  Improperly  removing  classification  markings  from  documents  or  improperly changing classification markings on documents.  Unwarranted work outside of normal duty hours.  Attempts to entice co-workers into criminal situations that could lead to blackmail or extortion.  Attempts  to  entice  DoD  personnel  or  contractors  into  situations  that  could  place them in a compromising position.  Attempts to  place DoD  personnel  or contractors  under obligation through special treatment, favors, gifts, or money.  Requests for witness signatures certifying the destruction of classified information when the witness did not observe the destruction.  Requests  for  DoD  information  that  make  an  individual  suspicious,  to  include suspicious or questionable requests over the internet or SNS.  Trips to foreign countries that are:  a. Short trips inconsistent with logical vacation travel or not part of official duties. b. Trips inconsistent with an individual’s financial ability and official duties.  Unexplained or undue affluence.  a. Expensive purchases an individual’s income does not logically support.  b. Attempts to explain wealth by reference to an inheritance, luck in gambling, or a successful business venture.  c. Sudden reversal of a bad financial situation or repayment of large debts.  NOTE  1:  Certain  Air  Force  members  and  civilian  employees  in  positions designated  as  “sensitive”  by  their  Air  Force  component  also  may  be  required  to notify  their  commanders  or  supervisors  in  advance  of  the  nature  and  reason  for contacting a foreign diplomatic establishment. AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   11  Table 3.2.  Reportable International Terrorism Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors Personnel  who  fail  to  report  the  contacts,  activities,  indicators,  and  behaviors  in  items  1 through 9 may be subject to judicial and/or administrative action in accordance with para. 3.3 of this instruction. The activity in item 10 is reportable, but failure to report this activity solely may not serve as the basis for punitive action under Article 92, UCMJ.  Reportable International Terrorism Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Advocating violence, the threat of violence, or the use of force to achieve goals on behalf of a known or suspected international terrorist organization.  Advocating support for a known or suspected international terrorist organization’s or objectives.  Providing financial or other material support to a known or suspected international terrorist organization or to someone suspected of being an international terrorist.  Procuring supplies and equipment,  to  include purchasing bomb  making materials or  obtaining  information  about  the  construction  of  explosives,  on  behalf  of  a known or suspected international terrorist organization.  Contact, association, or connections to known or suspected international terrorists, including online, e-mail, and social networking contacts.  Expressing an obligation to engage in violence in support of known or suspected international terrorism or inciting others to do the same.  Any attempt to recruit personnel on behalf of a known or suspected international terrorist organization or for terrorist activities.  Collecting  intelligence,  including  information  regarding  installation  security,  on behalf of a known or suspected international terrorist organization.  Familial  ties,  or  other  close  associations,  to  known  or  suspected  international terrorists or terrorist supporters.  10.  Repeated browsing or visiting known or suspected international terrorist websites that promote or advocate violence directed against the U.S. or U.S. forces, or that promote international terrorism or terrorist themes, without official sanction in the performance of duty.  Table 3.3.  Reportable FIE-Associated Cyberspace Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors Personnel  who  fail  to  report  the  contacts,  activities,  indicators,  and  behaviors  in  items  1 through 10 may be subject to judicial and/or administrative action in accordance with para. 3.3 of  this  instruction.  The  indicators  in  items  11  through  19  are  reportable,  but  failure  to  report these indicators solely may not serve as the basis for punitive action under Article 92, UCMJ.  Reportable FIE-Associated Cyberspace Contacts, Activities, Indicators, and Behaviors  1. Actual or attempted unauthorized access into U.S. automated information systems and  unauthorized transmissions  of  classified  or  controlled  unclassified information.    12  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Password  cracking,  key  logging,  encryption,  steganography,  privilege  escalation, and account masquerading. Network spillage incidents or information compromise.  Use of DoD account credentials by unauthorized parties. Tampering with or introducing unauthorized elements into information systems.  Unauthorized downloads or uploads of sensitive data.  Unauthorized  use  of  Universal  Serial  Bus,  removable  media,  or  other  transfer devices.  Downloading or installing non-approved computer applications.  Unauthorized network access.  8. 9. 10.  Unauthorized e-mail traffic to foreign destinations.  11.  Denial of service attacks or suspicious network communications failures.  12.  Excessive  and  abnormal  intranet  browsing,  beyond  the  individual's  duties  and responsibilities, of internal file servers or other networked system contents.  13.  Any  credible  anomaly,  finding,  observation,  or  indicator  associated  with  other activity or behavior that may also be an indicator of terrorism or espionage.  14.  Data exfiltrated to unauthorized domains.  15.  Unexplained storage of encrypted data.  16.  Unexplained user accounts.  17.  Hacking or cracking activities.  18. 19.  Malicious codes or blended threats such as viruses, worms, trojans, logic bombs, malware, spyware, or browser hijackers, especially those used for clandestine data exfiltration. Social engineering, electronic elicitation, e-mail spoofing or spear phishing.  3.2.  Responsibility  to  Report  Incidents.  The  following  persons  are  required  to  report incidents.  All  other  persons  associated  with  Air  Force  activities  but  not  listed  below  are encouraged to report counterintelligence incidents: 3.2.1.  Active duty Air Force personnel and Air Force civilian employees. 3.2.2.  U.S. Air Force Reserve personnel while in active status and Category B reservists on inactive duty for training (IDT) status. 3.2.3.  Air National Guard personnel when performing or supporting a federal mission. 3.2.4.  Foreign  national  employees  of  the  DoD  in  overseas  areas,  as  stipulated  in  command directives and Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA). 3.2.5.  Air Force contract employees and DoD contractor personnel with security clearances. 3.2.6.  Civilian  employees  of  U.S.  defense  agencies  for  which  AFOSI  provides counterintelligence  support in  accordance  with  AFPD  71-1  and  DoDI  5240.10, Counterintelligence  (CI)  in  the  Combatant  Commands  and  Other  DoD  Components,  and overseas employees of the U.S. government for whom the Air Force provides support. 3.3.  Sanctions.  The  reporting  requirements  articulated  in  chapter  3  and  outlined  in  tables  3.1-3.3  are  MANDATORY.  Failure  to  observe  the  reporting  requirements  of  this  instruction  by military  personnel  is  a  violation  of  Article  92,  Failure  to  Obey  Order  or  Regulation,  Uniform Code  of  Military  Justice.    Similarly,  failure  to  observe  the  reporting  requirements  of  this AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   13  instruction  in  chapter  3  and  outlined  in  tables  3.1-3.3  by  civilian  employees  may  result  in administrative disciplinary action under applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws.   14  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 Chapter 4 COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM 4.1.  Counterintelligence  Investigations.  AFOSI  is  responsible  for  the  conduct,  management, coordination,  and  control  of  CI  investigations  within  the  Air  Force  in  accordance  with  DoDD 5240.02, Counterintelligence, to include investigations of active and reserve military personnel, DoD  civilians,  and  other  DoD  affiliated  personnel  as  clarified in  DoDI  5240.04, Counterintelligence (CI) Investigations. 4.1.1.  AFOSI will report to the FBI those incidents meeting the criteria of section 50 U.S.C. 3381  (e)    and    refer    CI    investigative    matters    to    the    FBI    according    to    guidance prescribed in DoDI 5240.04 and section 533 of Title 28, U.S.C. (T-0) 4.1.2.  HQ AFOSI/JA will provide legal reviews of requests for financial information before submission  to  financial  institutions  and  will  conduct  a  legal  review  of  financial  institution responses to ensure they are within the scope of the request. (T-1) 4.1.3.  AFOSI  will  evaluate  CI  inquiry  referrals  from  defense  agencies  and  initiate  CI investigations in accordance with DoDI 5240.04 when warranted. (T-0) 4.1.4.  AFOSI  will  conduct  CI  activities  in  cyberspace  to  identify,  disrupt,  neutralize, penetrate, and exploit (FIE threats targeting the Air Force and DoD, in accordance with law and applicable instructions such as DoDI S-5240.2. (T-0) AFOSI should also pursue, counter and deter insiders who abuse their access to AF and DoD information systems. 4.1.5.  AFOSI will provide proactive and  comprehensive CI support to  the Defense Critical Infrastructure  Program  (DCIP),  to  include  the  full  spectrum  of  CI  activities.  (T-0)    AFOSI will  also  provide  comprehensive,  timely  reporting  of  potential  foreign  threat  incidents, events, and trends  to  DCIP  authorities  and  the  DoD  Components  to  support  the  DoD  critical infrastructure program IAW DoDI 5240.19 and law. (T-0) 4.2.  Offensive  Counterintelligence  Operations.  AFOSI  will  operate  an  Offensive Counterintelligence  Operations  (OFCO)  program  consistent  with  the  requirements  outlined  in DoD Instruction S-5240.09, Offensive Counterintelligence Operations, and AFPD 71-1. (T-0) 4.2.1.  As  required,  AF/A3  supports  OFCO  and  serves  as  the  approval  authority  for  AF-proprietary items, as outlined in DoDI 5240.09, Encl 2, Paragraph 7, sub paragraph (b). 4.3.  Counterintelligence Analysis and Production.  AFOSI CI elements will produce analytic products to outline, describe, or illustrate the threat posed by espionage, international terrorism, subversion,  sabotage,  assassination,  and  covert  activities.  (T-1)    This  includes  analysis  used  to identify opportunities to  conduct  offensive CI operations (OFCO) targeting  a FIE as  well as to identify CI investigative opportunities and other activities that have an FIE nexus.  (Ref AFPD 71-1 and DoDI 5240.18). 4.3.1.  CI  analytical  products,  unless  otherwise  exempted  by  ICD  501,  shall  be  included  in the Library of National Intelligence. (T-0) 4.3.2.  CI  analytical  products  intended    for    release    to    foreign    governments    will    be  coordinated    in  accordance  with  applicable  Air  Force  and  DoD  policies,  and  only  released AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   15  consistent  with  DNI  policies  for  disclosure  of  classified  information  and  controlled unclassified information. (T-0) 4.4.  AF  Counterintelligence  Collections  &  Reporting.  AFOSI  is  the  only  Air  Force  agency authorized to collect and report CI information.  Commanders will ensure personnel conducting CI  activities  adhere  to  policy  and  procedures  under  AFI  14-104,  Oversight  of  Intelligence Activities and DoDD 5240.01 and DoD 5240.1-R. (T-0) 4.4.1.  Personnel engaged in CI collection and collection management responsibilities will be adequately  trained  and  research  and  prepare  collection  plans  and/or  operating  directives consistent with applicable collection requirements. (T-0) 4.4.2.  CI  collections  conducted  with  foreign  counterpart  intelligence,  CI,  security,  and  law enforcement  entities  will  be  deconflicted  with  other  U.S.  government  agencies  as  required. (T-0) 4.4.3.  All collection and use of the public information environment must be consistent with limitations  of  AFI  14-104, DoDI 5240.17, and  DoD  5240.1-R.  As part of the CI mission, CI elements are authorized to conduct the following activities. (T-0) 4.4.3.1.  Liaison.  Liaison  meetings  or  events  with  U.S.  and  foreign  security,  law enforcement, CI and intelligence organizations, and non-DoD affiliated personnel. 4.4.3.2.  Open  Source  and  Media  Exploitation.  Open  sources,  captured  documents, and other media may be exploited in support of validated CI collection requirements. 4.4.3.3.  CI  Debriefings  and  Briefings.  Briefings/debriefings  and  screenings  of personnel  who  may  possess  information  that  may  be  responsive  to  CI  collection requirements. 4.4.3.4.  CI Collection in Cyberspace.  Operations in cyberspace designed to collect and report information responsive to validated requirements. 4.4.3.5.  Sources.  In the conduct of its CI mission, AFOSI may utilize sources to collect information  responsive  to  validated  requirements.  Reference  paragraph  4.14  for  more information on CI sources. Interrogation 4.4.3.6.  CI and Detainees.  Conduct interrogations in accordance with DoDD 3115.09, DoD Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical Questioning. of  Enemy  Prisoners of  War (EPW) 4.5.  Counterintelligence  Support  to  Force  Protection  (FP).  AFOSI  is  responsible  for collecting and providing threat data to command officials for the protection of USAF programs, personnel, and equities in deployed and in-garrison environments. 4.5.1.  Deploying  personnel  assigned  to  conduct  CI  activities  will  complete  specialized training for CI support to FP. (T-0) 4.5.1.1.  CI  personnel  will  comply  with  requirements  defined  in  DoDI  5240.18  when producing CI assessments to combat terrorism and to meet CI support to FP requirements of in-garrison and deployed forces. (T-0)   16  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 4.5.1.2.  AFOSI  will  provide  annual  local  threat  assessment  information  to  the  Threat Working  Group  (TWG)  and/or  appropriate  threat/terrorism  groups  as  well  as  be  an  active participant within the group for threat data. (T-2) 4.5.2.  AFOSI  will  conduct  liaison  with  Federal,  State,  and  local  agencies  and  foreign agencies for the collection and appropriate exchange of terrorist threat information. (T-2) 4.6.  Digital  and  Multimedia  Forensics.  Defense  Cyber  Crime  Center  (DC3)  referenced  in paragraph 1.4 above. 4.6.1.  The AFOSI Cyber Program Manager authorized all AFOSI Special Agents (who have received  proper  training  and  who  act  on  appropriate  legal  approvals/authorities)  to  use AFOSI  approved  cyber  tools  for  CI  investigations  and  operations.    AFOSI  approved  tools enable agents to conduct the following: 4.6.1.1.  Mobile Phone Data Extraction.  Mobile phones can contain information such as personal information,  contacts,  calendars,  appointments,  memos,  notes,  caller identification,  text  messages,  files,  pictures,  videos,  ringtones  and  passwords.    AFOSI approved mobile phone data extraction devices enable agents to review and analyze data on-site. 4.6.1.2.  Digital  Media  Collection.    Digital  media  such  as  hard  drives,  media  cards, computers,  thumb  drives  and  USB  hard  drives  may  be  encountered  during  CI investigations and operations.  Approved tools enable agents to make exact digital copies of media collected. This gives the agent the option to copy those items of interest on-site rather than sending them to an approved lab for copying. Making an exact copy as soon as possible preserves the integrity of the data and enables the agent to review the contents once copied while the original is sent to an approved laboratory for further analysis. 4.6.1.3.  Preview of Digital Media.  Approved tools are available that give the agent the ability to triage and preview collected media (hard drives, media cards, thumb drives etc.) to quickly determine which media contains relevant data and thus should be copied and sent  for  laboratory  analysis.  With  the  proper  legal  coordination,  these  tools  allow  the agent  to  harvest  data  on-scene  that  may  drive  investigative  leads  and  other  operational activity. 4.6.2.  If assistance is required during the extraction, collections or preview portion of the CI investigation or operation, consult the AFOSI ICON, Cyber Integration Desk. 4.7.  Classifying  Counterintelligence  Information.  Except  for  information  subject  to  the Atomic  Energy  Act  of  1954  (as  amended),  AFOSI  assigns  classification  markings  to counterintelligence information according to the guidelines in AFI 31-401, Information Security Management and DoDM 5200.01 Volume 3, DoD Information Security Program: Protection of Classified  Information,  DoDI  5240.8,  Counterintelligence  (CI)  Security  Classification  Guide (U), and Executive Order 13526.  These publications and executive order provide the only basis for application of security  classification to  counterintelligence information within the DoD and Air Force. 4.8.  Acquiring Intelligence Information about U.S. Persons. AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   17  4.8.1.  The  Air  Force  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC)  is  the  primary  legal  counsel  for  all  Air Force intelligence oversight issues.  SAF/GC provides advice to intelligence components on questions of legality and propriety, as required. 4.8.1.1.  Reporting  Questionable  Intelligence  Activities.      In  accordance  with  DTM  08-052, DoD Guidance for Reporting Questionable Intelligence Activities and Significant or Highly  Sensitive  Matters,  or  its  successor  guidance,  all  AF  personnel  are  required  to report  questionable  intelligence  activities  and  significant  or  highly  sensitive  matters involving  intelligence  activities  that  may  have  serious  implications  for  the  execution  of DoD  missions.      It  is  DoD  policy  that  senior  leaders  and  policymakers  within  the Government  be  made  aware  of  events  that  may  erode  the  public  trust  in  the  conduct  of DoD intelligence operations. 4.8.2.  AFOSI may collect information about a U.S. person, as defined in DoD 5240.1-R, in its role as a designated CI component only if it is necessary to perform its assigned mission. 4.8.3.  The collection must meet the standard of information that can be collected as defined by Procedures 2 of DoD 5240.1-R, which are incorporated by reference. (T-0) The fact that a collection  category  exists  does  not  convey  authorization  to  collect.    A  link  is  required between the U.S. person information to be collected and the AFOSI mission and function. 4.8.3.1.  AFOSI  may  collect  U.S.  person  information  by  any  lawful  means,  but  must exhaust  all  feasible  less  intrusive  means  prior  to  requesting  a  more  intrusive  collection. See DoD 5240.1-R. (T-0) 4.8.3.2.  Information  acquired  incidentally  to  an  otherwise  authorized  collection  may  be retained  if  (a)  the  information  is  collected  under  the  provisions  of  Procedure  2,  DoD 5240.1-R; (b) the information is necessary to understand or assess foreign intelligence or counterintelligence;  (c)  the  information  is  foreign  intelligence  or  counterintelligence collected  from  authorized  electronic  surveillance;  or  (d)  the  information  is  incidental  to authorized collection and may indicate involvement in activities that may violate Federal, State, local, or foreign law. 4.8.4.  The collection, retention, and dissemination must be in accordance with  Procedure 3 and Procedure 4 of DoD 5240.1-R, which are incorporated by reference. (T-0) 4.8.4.1.  Information about U.S. persons may be retained temporarily, for a period not to exceed  90  days,  solely  for  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  the  information  may  be permanently  retained.    If  the  information  may  not  be  retained,  it  must  be  appropriately disposed of or destroyed IAW DoD 5240.1-R and Air Force instructions. (T-0) 4.9.  Use  of  Specialized  Techniques  in  Counterintelligence  Investigations  and  Operations Targeting  U.S.  Persons.    AFOSI  is  the  sole  agency  within  the  Air  Force  authorized  to  use specialized techniques for counterintelligence purposes, as defined by Procedures 5 through 10, in  DoD  5240.1-R.  This  same  definition  applies  if  AFOSI  requests  other  agencies  to  use  these techniques  in  support  of  the  Air  Force.  For  the  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  AFOSI  is  a  DoD intelligence  component  as  defined  in  DoD  5240.1-R.  The  authority  to  conduct  specialized techniques resides solely with the Commander, AFOSI. The Commander, AFOSI, may delegate this  authority  in  writing  to  a  headquarters-level  senior  official  who  exercises  direct  oversight authority  of  counterintelligence  investigative  operations.  Although  the  authority  may  be delegated,  the  Commander,  AFOSI,  retains  authority  over  AFOSI  operations  at  all  times.  The   18  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 following  subparagraphs  describe  the  specialized  techniques  under  DoD  5240.1-R  available  to AFOSI for CI activities. In all cases, AFOSI must comply with the requirements of DoD 5240.1-R and AFI 14-104. (T-0) 4.9.1.  The  Commander,  AFOSI,  will  provide  SAF/GC  prior  notice,  with  a  reasonable opportunity to respond, before taking action on use of any specialized technique, reasonably identifiable as being of high sensitivity, of specific interest to SECAF, or having the potential for  significant  Congressional,  media,  or  public  interest.  (T-1)  AFOSI/CC  may  approve  an emergency  request  prior  to  providing  notice  to  SAF/GC,  but  in  such  event  will  provide SAF/GC  a  written  record  of  the  request  and  action  taken  on  it  within  72  hours  of  the emergency approval. (T-1) 4.9.2.  The procedures  described within this instruction are for counterintelligence purposes only.  In  all  other  AFOSI  activities  the  procedures  prescribed  in  AFI  71-101  Volume  1, Criminal Investigations, apply. Intelligence 4.9.3.  Procedure  5,  Electronic  Surveillance, Surveillance  Act  (FISA)  (Title  50,  U.S.C.  §1801).      AFOSI  may  conduct  electronic surveillance  against  persons  within  the  U.S.  pursuant  to  an  order  issued  by  the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) or upon Attorney General authorization. the  Foreign implements 4.9.4.  Procedure 6, Concealed Monitoring, applies to concealed monitoring only for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes conducted by AFOSI within the United States or directed against a United States person who is outside the United States where the subject of such monitoring does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy and in accordance with DoD 5240.1-R. Whether concealed monitoring is to occur where the subject has a reasonable expectation of privacy is a determination that depends upon the circumstances of a particular case, and shall be made only after consultation with the legal office responsible for advising the  DoD  intelligence  component  concerned  (i.e.,  AFOSI).  (T-0)  Reasonable  expectation  of privacy is the extent to which a reasonable person in the particular circumstances involved is entitled  to  believe  his  or  her  actions  are  not  subject  to  monitoring  by  electronic,  optical,  or mechanical devices. Concealed monitoring operations must be approved by the Commander, AFOSI, in accordance with DoD 5240.1-R. (T-0) 4.9.4.1.  Under  18  U.S.C.  §2511(2)(i),  the  electronic  communications  of  a  computer trespasser transmitted to, through, or from a protected computer may be intercepted under the following circumstances: (a) the owner/operator of the protected computer authorizes, in writing, the interception of the computer trespasser’s communications on the protected computer; (b) the interception is to be conducted pursuant to a lawful CI investigation; (c) there  is  reason  to  believe  the  contents  of  the  computer  trespasser’s  communication  is relevant  to  the  investigation;  and  (d)  the  interception  does  not  acquire  communications other than those transmitted to or from the computer trespasser. 4.9.5.  Procedure 7, Physical Search, AFOSI is authorized to conduct nonconsensual physical searches of active duty military personnel or their property within the U.S. when authorized by  a  military  commander  empowered  to  approve  physical  searches  for  law  enforcement purposes under the provisions of the Manual for Courts Martial, and there is probable cause to believe that the subject is acting as an agent of a foreign power in accordance with DODI 5240.1-R, paragraph C7.3.1.1.). AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   19  4.9.6.  Procedure 8, Mail Searches and Examination, applies to mail  covers and the opening of mail within U.S. postal channels for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes. It  also applies to the opening of mail to or from  U.S. persons where the mail is not in U.S. postal channels and the mail opening occurs outside the U.S..  AFOSI may request that U.S. Postal  Service  (USPS)  authorities  examine  mail  (mail  cover)  in  USPS  channels  for  CI purposes.    AFOSI  may  request  mail  cover  outside  USPS  channels  in  accordance  with appropriate host nation law and procedures, and any Status of Forces Agreements (SOFAs.) 4.9.7.  Procedure 9, Physical Surveillance, applies to nonconsensual physical surveillance for foreign intelligence or CI purposes.  It does not apply to physical surveillance conducted as part  of  a  training  exercise  in  which  the  surveillance  subjects  are  exercise  participants. AFOSI  may  only  conduct  nonconsensual  physical  surveillance  of  U.S.  persons  who  are military    personnel    on    active    duty    status;    present    or    former    intelligence    component employees; present or former intelligence component contractors and their present or former employees; applicants for such employment or contracting; or persons in contact with those who  fall  into  the  above  categories  to  the  extent  necessary  to  ascertain  the  identity  of  the person in contact.   Surveillance conducted outside a DoD installation should be coordinated with the FBI and other law enforcement agencies as appropriate. 4.9.8.  Procedure 10, Undisclosed Participation, applies to AFOSI personnel participating in any organization within the U.S., or a U.S. person organization outside the U.S., on behalf of AFOSI for CI purposes. It also applies when an employee is asked to take action within an organization  for  AFOSI  benefit,  whether  the  employee  is  already  a  member  or  is  asked  to join  an  organization.  Actions  for  AFOSI  benefit  include  collecting  information,  identifying potential  sources  or  contacts,  and  other  activities  directly  relating  to  foreign  intelligence  or counterintelligence functions. It does not apply to participation for purely personal reasons if undertaken at the AFOSI employee’s initiative and expense and for the employee’s personal benefit. 4.9.8.1.  Cyber  counterintelligence  investigations  utilizing  procedure  10,  Undisclosed Participation,  require  legal  review  and  approval  prior  to  initiation.    Online  personas  for counterintelligence  investigations  must  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  AFOSI Undercover  policy  and  DoD  Instruction  S-5105.63  Implementation  of  DoD  Cover  and Cover Support Activities requiring an approved cover plan prior to initiation.  (T-1) 4.9.9.  Unless  otherwise  proscribed  by  law  or  DoD  Policy,  specialized  techniques  may  be authorized by the appropriate approving authority for a period of 180 days (with exceptions addressed  in  paragraph  4.8.9.1.  and  4.8.9.2.  below).  Extensions  may  be  granted  upon submission  of  appropriate  justification.    All  requests  and  approvals  will  are  documented  in internal AFOSI records and be disclosed only to competent authorities for official purposes. 4.9.9.1.  Cyber  counterintelligence    investigations    utilizing  Procedure    6,    Concealed Monitoring, DoD 5240.1-R and the computer trespasser exception may be authorized by the Commander, AFOSI for up to 365 days. AFOSI/JA will provide a legal review for the addition  of  new  monitoring  sites;  once  legally  sufficient,  the  sites  may  become operational under the existing authority. (T-1)  The Commander, AFOSI, may authorize extensions  for  cyber  counterintelligence  investigations  annually  with  appropriate justification.    All  active  monitoring  sites  are  included  in  the  overall  operations  plan  for AFOSI Commander extensions.   20  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 4.9.9.2.  Investigations utilizing Procedure 10, Undisclosed Participation, DoD 5240.1-R, may be authorized for 12 months. 4.9.10.  The  Commander,  AFOSI,  publishes  internal  instructions  directing  the  conduct  and approval  process  for  all  specialized  and  operational  techniques.  AFOSI  documents  the approvals,  the  specific  techniques  utilized,  the  identity  of  persons  monitored,  and  the disposition of the products of such techniques in internal documentation.  Operational plans and  approvals  will  be  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and classification disposition. (T-1) 4.9.11.  In  joint  investigations  where  AFOSI  cannot  conduct  counterintelligence  activities under  its  own  authority,  the  AFOSI/CC,  or  designee,  may  approve  AFOSI  operating  under the authority of another U.S. intelligence agency, such as the FBI. Note: The ICON must be notified  if  authorized  U.S.  federal  agencies  request  approval  to  initiate  operational techniques under their own authority on a DoD installation or DoD leased property.  (T-0)  In  addition,  AFOSI  may  utilize  specialized  techniques  under  the  approval  authority  of another authorized U.S. federal agency after consultation with AFOSI/JA and if an agency’s request containing the following: 4.9.11.1.  AFOSI is operating under the requesting agency’s authorities. (T-0) 4.9.11.2.  The  techniques  to  be  used  must  have  been  approved  by  the  appropriate agency’s authority/policy. (T-0) 4.9.11.3.  The agency must conduct its own legal review/concurrence of those techniques to be used. (T-0) 4.9.12.  AFOSI/JA  is  the  primary legal  office  authorized  to  provide  legal  guidance  and conduct  legal  reviews  of  specialized  techniques  conducted  by  AFOSI.      All  specialized techniques must be reviewed for legal sufficiency prior to operation initiation. (T-1) 4.9.13.  Procedures  requiring  approval  outside  AFOSI  are  staffed  through  HQ  AFOSI  to SAF/GC. The requests are reviewed by SAF/GC, who ensures approval is obtained from the appropriate authority. 4.10.  Other  Operational  Techniques  targeting  U.S.  Persons.      AFOSI  also  utilizes  other techniques for counterintelligence purposes in accordance with DoDD 5240.01 and DoD 5240.1-R.    For  the  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  AFOSI  is  a  DoD  intelligence  component  as  defined  in DoD  5240.1-R.    The  Commander,  AFOSI,  or  delegated  authority,  must  approve  the  following operational techniques prior to initiation: 4.10.1.  Trash cover. (T-1) 4.10.2.  National Security Letters. (T-1) 4.10.3.  DoD Subpoena. (T-1) 4.10.4.  AFOSI/JA is the legal office authorized to provide legal guidance and conduct legal reviews    of    other    operational    techniques    in    support    of    counterintelligence    operations conducted by AFOSI.  All specialized techniques must be legally reviewed prior to operation initiation. (T-0) 4.11.  Interceptions of Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications.  The Commander, AFOSI, or  designated  authority,  must  approve  the  consensual  acquisition  of  nonpublic  wire,  oral  or AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   21  electronic  communications  where  at  least  one  party  to  the  communication  consents  to  such interception (T-0).  The AFOSI commander’s authorities encompass all interceptions within the U.S.  and  all  interceptions  of  U.S.  person  targets  outside  of  the  U.S.    In  emergency  situations only,  the  activity  may  be  approved  verbally  after  consultation  with  HQ  AFOSI/JA.    A  written approval and legal review must be conducted to document the decision. (T-1)  See AFI 71-101 Volume  1,  Criminal  Investigations,  for  guidance  on  consensual  interceptions  for  law enforcement purposes. 4.11.1.  Nonconsensual  interceptions  of  nonpublic  wire,  oral,  or  electronic  communications will be conducted in  accordance  with  Procedure  5, Electronic Surveillance, DoD 5240.1-R, and  this  instruction.  (T-0)    The  request  will  be  reviewed  by  SAF/GC  who  will  ensure approval is obtained from the appropriate authority. (T-0) 4.11.2.  The  Commander,  AFOSI,  or  delegated  authority,  must  approve  all  interceptions  of Wire,  Oral,  or  Electronic  Communications  targeting  Non-U.S.  persons  overseas.  (T-1)  All U.S. persons involved must be aware of the operation and consent to the monitoring. (T-1) 4.12.  Operations  targeting  Non-U.S.  Persons.      AFOSI  may  collect  information  about  Non- U.S. persons in its role as a designated counterintelligence component only if it is necessary to perform its assigned mission. 4.13.  Operations  targeting  Non-U.S.  persons  within  the  U.S.      AFOSI  may  collect information about Non-U.S. persons within AFOSI’s jurisdiction or in conjunction with partner agencies  that  hold  jurisdiction.  All  specialized  or  other  techniques  targeting  Non-U.S.  persons will be reviewed by AFOSI/JA and approved by the Commander, AFOSI, or delegated authority. (T-1) 4.13.1.  Within  the  United  States,  when  the  individual  has  a  reasonable  expectation  of privacy  and  under  circumstances  where  a  warrant  would  be  required  for  law  enforcement purposes,  concealed  monitoring  is  treated  and  processed  as  electronic  surveillance. Monitoring is considered within the U.S. if the monitoring device, or the monitored target, is located within the U.S.. 4.14.  Operations  targeting  Non-U.S.  persons  outside  the  U.S.      All  specialized  or  other techniques  targeting  Non-U.S.  persons  will  be  reviewed  by  AFOSI/JA  and  approved  by  the Commander, AFOSI, or designated authority. (T-1) 4.14.1.  Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). The use of specialized or other techniques in CI activities  targeting  non-U.S.  persons  outside  the  U.S.  may  be  subject  to  limitations  or requirements  imposed  by  the  SOFA.    A  legal  review  of  the  technique  should  be  obtained prior to approval. 4.14.2.  When conducting CI activities overseas, coordinate with the CIA in accordance with the  Director  Central  Intelligence  Annex  3  to  the  Memorandum  of  Agreement  between  the Central Intelligence Agency (previously DCID 5/1) and the Department of Defense. 4.14.3.  In  a  deployed  area  of  responsibility,  the  Combined  Air  Operations  Center  SJA  or deployed  SJA  will  review  the  application  of  each  technique  to  ensure  compliance  with Intelligence Oversight policy and/or the Law of Armed Conflict  (LOAC) and approve their use. (T-1)  A copy of the approval must be provided to HQ AFOSI/JA. (T-1)   22  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 4.15.  Sources.  CI  Sources  are  used  to  enable  defensive  CI  activities,  CI  investigations,  CI collections, and CI operations.  CI  sources (at times also referred to as informants or confidential informants)  will    be    selected    based    on    suitability,    placement,    and    access    to  required information, and need not be DoD-affiliated. (T-1)  CI sources may be U.S. or foreign nationals, and may be trained, tasked, recruited, and controlled, in accordance with internal AFOSI policy. 4.16.  Using  Emergency  and  Extraordinary  Expense  Funds  (E-Funds).  Subject  to  the availability  of  appropriations,  Title  10,  U.S.C.,  Part  I,  Chapter  3,  §127  provides  the  SECAF authority  for  any  emergency  or  extraordinary  expenses  that  cannot  be  anticipated  or  classified. AFOSI  uses  E-Funds  for  any  authorized  requirement  that  contributes  to  counterintelligence and/or  investigative  missions  or  aids  in  acquiring  counterintelligence  or  criminal  investigative information. 4.16.1.  Congress annually specifies the amount of appropriated funds the SECAF can use as E-Funds.  SECAF  has  delegated  authority  for  expenditure  of  E-Funds  to  the  Administrative Assistant to SECAF (SAF/AA).  SAF/AA sets the annual E-Fund expenditure limitation and reports E-Funds expenditures to the Office of the Secretary of Defense. Inspector  General the  Air  Force  E-Funds 4.16.2.  SAF/AA annually allocates a specific portion of the E-Fund expenditure authority to the for counterintelligence  and  criminal  investigative  programs  and  delegates  to  the  Commander, AFOSI, the authority to approve counterintelligence and investigative expenditures. (SAF/IG).  SAF/IG  oversees 4.16.3.  In  accordance  with  AFPD  71-1,  AFI  71-101,  Volume  1,  Criminal  Investigations Program,  Commander,  AFOSI,  manages  and  implements  the  E-Funds  for  the  CI  and criminal investigative programs and ensures that expenditures are proper.  The Commander, AFOSI, or a designee, must approve the use of E-Funds for the extension of modest liaison event courtesies to representatives of foreign law enforcement and intelligence agencies and key representatives of U.S. Federal, state, county, or local law enforcement and intelligence agencies. (T-1) 4.16.4.  Air  Force  Audit  Agency  (AFAA)  audits  the  E-Funds  program  annually  to  ensure compliance with this Instruction and internal AFOSI Instructions. 4.16.5.  The E-Funds Custodian at each field unit is responsible for the working fund at that unit.  Cash  on  hand  must  be  stored  in  a  General  Services  Administration  (GSA)-approved container,  with  the  combination  controlled  and  restricted  to  the  minimum  number  of personnel. (T-2)  GREGORY A. BISCONE, Lieutenant General, USAF The Inspector General AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   23  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Executive Order 12333, U.S. Intelligence Activities, December 4, 1981 Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security Information, December 29, 2009 AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, April 23, 2012 AFI16-701, Management, Administration, and Oversight of Special Access Programs, February 18, 2014 AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, November 1, 2005, Incorporating Change 1, August 19, 2009 and Air Force Guidance Memorandum, September 18, 2013 AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, June 5, 2013 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2014 AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008, Incorporating Air Force Guidance Memorandum, May 28, 2014 AFI 71-101, Volume 1, Criminal Investigations, April 8, 2011, Incorporating Change 1, May 16, 2013 AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, January 6, 2010, Incorporating Change 2, September 30, 2011 Computer Security Act of 1987, Public Law 100-235 (H.R. 145), January 8, 1988 DoD Directive 3020.40, DoD Policy and Responsibilities for Critical Infrastructure, January 14, 2010, Incorporating Change 2, September 21, 2012 DoD Directive 3115.09, DoD Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical Questioning, October, 11, 2012, Incorporating Change 1, November 15, 2013 DoD Instruction 3305.11, DoD Counterintelligence (CI) Training, March 19, 2007,  Incorporating Change 2, October 15, 2013 DoD Instruction S-5105.63, Implementation of DoD Cover and Cover Support Activities (U), March 9, 1999 DoD Instruction  C-5240.08,  Counterintelligence (CI) Security Classification Guide (U), November 28, 2011 DoD Directive 5143.1, Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)), November 23, 2005 DoD Manual 5200.01 Volume 3, DoD Information Security Program: Protection of Classified Information, February 24, 2012, Incorporating Change 2, March 19, 2013 DoD Directive 5200.2, DoD Personnel Security Program, March 21, 2014   24  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 DoD Instruction 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within the Department of Defense, July 16, 2008 – Incorporating Change 1, December 28, 2010 DoD Directive 5240.01, DoD Intelligence Activities, August 27, 2007, Incorporating Change 1, and certified current through August 27, 2014 DoD Regulation 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components that Affect U.S. Persons, December 1982 DoD Directive O-5240.02, Counterintelligence, December 20, 2007 - Incorporating Change 1, December 30, 2010 DoD Instruction 5240.04, Counterintelligence (CI) Investigations, February 2, 2009, Incorporating Change 1, October 15, 2013 DoD Instruction 5240.06, Counterintelligence Awareness, and Reporting (CIAR), May 17, 2011, Incorporating Change 1, May 30, 2013 DoD Instruction 5240.8, Counterintelligence (CI) Security Classification Guide (U), November 28, 2011 DoD Instruction S-5240.09, Offensive Counterintelligence Operations (U), October 29, 2008 DoD Instruction 5240.10, Counterintelligence (CI) in the Combatant Commands and Other DoD Components, October 5, 2011, Incorporating Change 1, October 15, 2013 DoD Instruction S-5240.17, DoD Counterintelligence Collection Activities, March 14, 2014 DoD Instruction 5240.18, Counterintelligence (CI) Analysis and Production, November 17, 2009, Incorporating Change 1, October 15, 2013 DoD Instruction 5240.19, Counterintelligence Support to the Defense Critical Infrastructure Program, January 31, 2014 DoD Instruction O-5240.21, Counterintelligence (CI) Inquires (U), May 14, 2009 – Incorporating Change 1, November 19, 2010 DoD Instruction 5240.22, Counterintelligence Support to Force Protection, September 24, 2009, Incorporating Change 1, October 15, 2013 DoD Instruction S-5240.23, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities in Cyberspace (U), December 13, 2010 DoD Instruction O-5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and Acquisition (RDA), June 8, 2011 DoD Instruction 5240.26, Countering Espionage, International Terrorism, and the Counterintelligence (CI) Insider Threat, May 4, 2012, Incorporating Change 1, October 15, 2013 DoD Instruction 5240.27, Joint Counterintelligence Training Academy (JCITA), November 13, 2013 DoD Directive 5505.13E, DoD Executive Agent (EA) for the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3), March 1, 2010 AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   25  DoDI S-5240.23, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities in Cyberspace, December 13, 2010 Directive Type Memorandum (DTM) 08-011, Intelligence Oversight Policy Guidance, March 26, 2008, Incorporating Change 4, August 21, 2013 DTM 08-052, DoD Guidance for Reporting Questionable Intelligence Activities and Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters, June 17, 2009 – Incorporating Change 4, August 21, 2013 DTM 08-011, Intelligence Oversight Policy Guidance, March 26, 2008, IC 4, Effective August 1, 2013 Director of Central Intelligence Instruction (DCID) 1/20, Security Policy Concerning Travel and Assignment of Personnel with Access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), December 29, 1991 DCID 5/1, Espionage and Counterintelligence Abroad, December 19, 1984 Director Central Intelligence Annex 3 to the Memorandum of Agreement between the Central Intelligence Agency and the Department of Defense Executive Order 13556, Controlled Unclassified Information, 4 November 2012 Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) Number 203, Analytic Standards, June 21, 2007 ICD Number 206, Sourcing Requirements For Disseminated Analytic Products, October 17, 2007 Intelligence Community Directive 208, Write for Maximum Utility, 17 December 2008 Intelligence Community Directive 209, Tearline Production and Dissemination, 6 September 2012 Intelligence Community Directive 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence Community, January 21, 2009 Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 November 2010 (as Amended through 15 August 2014). Manual for Courts Martial United States, 2012 Edition Public Law 95-511, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Revision 1 to the DoD Overprint to the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual Supplement, April 1, 2004 Title 10, USC §801-940 Title 10, USC Part 1, Chapter 3, §127 Title 18, USC §2511(2)(i)  Title 18, USC §2831 Title 28, USC §533 Title 50, USC §1801 Title 50, USC §3381 Uniform Code of Military Justice   26  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, September 22, 2009 Terms Anomalies—  Foreign  power  activity  or  information  suggesting  foreign  knowledge  of  U.S. national security information, processes or capabilities. Classified National Security Information— Information that has been determined pursuant to Executive  Order  13526  or  any  predecessor  Executive  Order,  to  require  protection  against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in document form. Collections Management— The process of converting intelligence requirements into collection requirements, establishing priorities, tasking or coordinating with appropriate collection sources or agencies, monitoring results, and re-tasking, as required. Contact— Any form of meeting, association, or communication, in person, by radio, telephone, letter or other means, regardless of who started the contact or whether it was for social, official, private, or other reasons. Counterintelligence  (CI)—Information  gathered  and  activities  conducted  to  identify,  deceive, exploit,  disrupt,  or  protect  against  espionage,  other  intelligence  activities,  sabotage,  or assassinations  conducted  for  or  on  behalf  of  foreign  powers,  organizations  or  persons  or  their Agents, or international terrorist organizations or activities. CI activities in cyberspace— Activities to identify, disrupt, neutralize, penetrate, or exploit FIE activities, threats  or plans, as  FIE operate in  cyberspace or use it as  a conduit to  achieve some effect. CI  assessment—  A  comprehensive  analysis  or  study  of  a  relevant  CI  topic,  event,  situation, issue,  or  development.  CI  assessments  require  exhaustive  research  and  the  production  timeline can range from days to months. CI analysis product.— CI analytical products seek to satisfy a core CI production requirement to  identify  people,  organizations,  locations,  activities,  and  resources  associated  with  a  FIE  or  a target  of  a  FIE.  CI  analytical  products  are  categorized  based  on  the  purpose  of  the  product, analytical effort, the production timeline, and other distinguishing characteristics. The categories of  CI  analytical  products  are:  Assessment,  Analysis  report,  Threat  Advisory  and  Functional Support  (includes  investigative  and  operational  analysis  reports  and  operational  support package). Counterintelligence  Collections—  The  systematic  acquisition  of  information  concerning espionage, sabotage, terrorism, other intelligence activities or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of terrorists, foreign powers, and other entities. Counterintelligence Activities  in Cyberspace— Counterintelligence activities conducted in or through  cyberspace  are  activities  designed  to  detect,  identify,  pursue  and  counter  FIE exploitation  of  AF  and  DoD  resources  and  those  activities  are  executed  by  AFOSI’s  Cyber Investigations and Operations program. CI Activities also are conducted to identify, counter and AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   27  deter insider threats with access to classified and unclassified networks. Insider threat discovery is managed by AFOSI’s Insider Threat program. Counterintelligence  Investigations—  Conducted    to    prove    or    disprove    an    allegation    of espionage  or  other  intelligence  activities,  such  as  sabotage,  assassination,  or  other  national security  crimes  conducted  by  or  on  behalf  of  a  foreign  power,  organization,  international terrorists,  or  person.  CI  investigations  may  establish  the  elements  of  proof  for  prosecution  or administrative actions, provide a basis for CI operations, or validate the suitability of personnel for access to classified information. CI investigations are conducted against individuals or groups for  committing  major  security  violations,  as  well  as  failure  to  follow  Defense  Agency  and Military  Department  directives  governing  reporting  contacts  with  foreign  citizens  and  out-of- channel  requests  for  defense  information.  CI  investigations  provide  military  commanders  and policymakers with information used to eliminate security vulnerabilities and otherwise improve the security posture of threatened interests. Counterintelligence  Training—  Institutional  training  in  knowledge,  skills,  abilities,  and  core competencies unique to CI missions and functions. Defense  Travel  Briefings—  Formal    advisories    alerting    personnel    of    the    potential    for harassment,  exploitation,  provocation,  capture,  or  entrapment  while  traveling.  These  briefings, based on actual experience when available, include information  on courses of action helpful in mitigating  adverse  security  and  personnel  consequences  and  advise  of  passive  and  active measures  that  personnel  should  take  to  avoid  becoming  targets  or  inadvertent  victims  as  a consequence of hazardous travel. Digital  Multi-Media  (D/MM)  Forensics—  In  its  strictest  connotation,  D/MM  forensics  is  the application  of  computer  science  and  investigative  procedures  involving  the  examination  of digital  media that may contain evidence to  be used in  court; following proper search authority, chain  of  custody,  validation  with  mathematics,  use  of  validated  tools,  repeatability,  reporting, and possibly expert testimony. Beyond traditional legal purposes, the same techniques, scientific rigor, and procedural precision are used to support a wide-range of military needs for discovery and recovery of data stored using digital media. E-Funds—  Emergency  and  Extraordinary  (E&E)  Expense  Funds  used  to  further  the counterintelligence  and  investigative  missions  of  the  Air  Force.  This  subdivision  of  operation and  maintenance  (O&M)  funds  is  allocated  to  AFOSI,  through  SAF/IG,  by  the  SECAF  under certain  legal  restrictions  to  reimburse  investigators  for  authorized  expenses  incurred  in  the performance of their assigned duties. Electronic  Surveillance—  Acquisition  of  nonpublic  communication  by  electronic  means without the consent of a person who is party to an electronic communication or in the case of a non-electronic  communication,  without  the  consent  of  a  person  who  is  visibly  present  at  the place of communication, but not including the use of radio direction finding equipment solely to determine the location of the transmitter (Electronic surveillance within the U.S. is subject to the definition in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978). Espionage—  The  act  of  obtaining,  delivering,  transmitting,  communicating,  or  receiving information  about  the  national  defense  with  an  intent  or  reason  to  believe  that  the  information may be used to the injury of the U.S. or to the advantage of any foreign nation. The offense of espionage applies during war or peace.   28  AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015 Foreign Diplomatic Establishment— Any embassy, consulate, or interest section representing a foreign country. Foreign  Intelligence  Entity  (FIE)— Any known or suspected foreign organization, person, or group  (public,  private,  or  governmental)  that  conducts  intelligence  activities  to  acquire  U.S. information,  block or impair U.S.  intelligence collection, influence U.S.  policy, or disrupt  U.S. systems  and  programs.  This  term  includes  a  foreign  intelligence  and  security  services  and international terrorist organizations. Foreign Interest— Any foreign government, agency of a foreign government, or representative of a foreign government; any form of business enterprise or legal entity organized, chartered, or incorporated  under  the  laws  of  any  country  other  than  the  U.S.  or  its  possessions  and  trust territories; and any person who is not a citizen or national of the U.S.. Intelligence  Information  Report  (IIR)—  The  IIR  is  the  primary  vehicle  to  provide  human intelligence  information  to  the  consumer.  It  uses  a  message  format  structure  that  supports automated data entry into Intelligence Community databases. Military Department CI Agency and DoD CI Agency— The military department CI agencies include  Army  Counterintelligence,  the  Naval  Criminal  Investigative  Service  and  the  Air  Force Office of Special Investigations. DoD CI agencies include the foregoing plus the CI elements of the  Defense  Intelligence  Agency,  Defense  Security  Service,  National  Reconnaissance  Office, National Security Agency, and Defense Threat Reduction Agency. National Security— A collective term encompassing both national defense and foreign relations of the U.S.. Sabotage—  An  act  or  acts  with  the  intent  to  injure  or  interfere  with,  or  obstruct  the  national defense  of  a  country  by  willfully  injuring,  destroying,  or  attempting  to  destroy  any  national defense  or  war  materiel,  premises  or  utilities  to  include  human  or  natural  resources,  under reference. Source—  A  person,  thing  or  activity  from  which  information  is  obtained.  For  the  purposes  of this  Instruction,  a  source  is  a  person  who  provides  information  responsive  to  collection requirements. Spying—  During  wartime,  any  person  who  is  found  lurking  as  a  spy  or  acting  as  a  spy  in  or about any place, vessel or aircraft, within the control or jurisdiction of any of the Armed Forces or  in  or  about  any  shipyard,  any  manufacturing  or  industrial  plant,  or  any  other  place  or institution  engaged  in  work  in  aid  of  the  prosecution  of  the  war  by  the  United  States,  or elsewhere. Subversion— An act or acts inciting military or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense to violate laws, disobey lawful orders or regulations, or disrupt military activities with the willful intent thereby to interfere with, or impair the loyalty, morale, of discipline, of the Military Forces of the U.S.. Technology Transfer— The export of controlled technical information, data, and/or material to a foreign interest pursuant to 50 App. USC §2401 and 22 USC §2751. Terrorism—  The  calculated  use  of  violence  or  threat  of  violence  to  instill  fear  intended  to coerce  or  to  intimidate  governments  or  societies  in  the  pursuit  of  goals  that  are  generally political, religious, or ideological. AFI71-101V4  26 JANUARY 2015   29  Treason—  Whoever,  owing  allegiance  to  the  U.S.,  levies  war  against  them  or  adheres  to  their enemies, giving them aid and comfort within the U.S. or elsewhere, is guilty of treason (see Title 18, USC §2831) Unauthorized  Disclosure— A communication or physical  transfer of  classified information  to an unauthorized recipient. Controlled  Unclassified  Information—  Information  other  than  classified  information  that requires application of controls and protective measures because the information is exempt from release  under  the  Freedom  of  Information  Act.  Examples  include  “For  Official  Use  Only” information, “Sensitive but Unclassified” (Formerly “Limited Official Use”) information, “DEA Sensitive  Information,”  “DoD  Unclassified  Controlled  Nuclear  Information,”  or  “Sensitive Information”  as  defined  in  the  Computer  Security  Act  of  1987,  and  information  contained  in Technical Documents. Unofficial Contact— Contact not specifically required in accordance with job responsibilities.  