BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-103 24 MARCH  2016Certified Current 20 September 2017Safety AIR FORCE NUCLEAR SAFETY DESIGN CERTIFICATION PROGRAM COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication OPR:  AFSEC/SEWN Supersedes:  AFI 91-103, 17 November 2010 Certified by: AF/SED (James T. Rubeor, SES) Pages: 24 This  Instruction  implements  AFPD  91-1,  Nuclear  Weapons  and  Systems  Surety.    This publication is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  It outlines the Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, which is a major component of the overall USAF Nuclear Certification  Program  outlined  in  AFI  63-125,  Nuclear  Certification  Program.    It  defines  the process  for  obtaining  nuclear  safety  design  certification  of  hardware,  software,  procedures  and facilities  used  with  nuclear  weapon  systems.    It  applies  to  organizations  that  design,  develop, modify,  evaluate,  nuclear  certify,  or  operate  nuclear  weapon  systems  and  equipment.    This Instruction  is  applicable  to  the  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR)  and  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  units performing nuclear missions or equipped with nuclear certified support equipment.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  the  Air Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS).  The authorities  to  waive wing/unit  level  requirements in  this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications  and  Forms  Management,  Table  1.1  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated with  the  Tier  numbers.  Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.    Send  major  command  (MAJCOM)  supplements  to  this  instruction  to AFSEC/SEW at HQAFSCSEW@us.af.mil or 9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670 for  coordination  before  publication.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, 2 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command.   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  includes  minor  administrative  changes  throughout  and  updates  organizations.    It clarifies SAF/AQ and AFMC responsibilities and also incorporates new AFI 33-360, guidance to include Tier waiver requirements  Section A— Scope and Responsibilities  1. 2. 3.  Program Overview. .................................................................................................   Program Goal. .........................................................................................................   Responsibilities. ......................................................................................................  Section B— Nuclear Safety Design Certification Criteria  4. 5. 6.  Items That Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification. ......................................   Items That Do Not Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification. ..........................   Additional Requirements. .......................................................................................  Section C— Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process  7. 8.  Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process for New or Modified Weapon System Hardware, Procedures, Facilities, and Software. ........................................   Certification Process for Nuclear Safety Design Certified Technical Order Procedures. ...............................................................................................................  9.  Critical Components. ..............................................................................................  10.  Tamper Detection Indicators (TDIs). ......................................................................  11.  Special Test and Maintenance Programs. ...............................................................  12.  Nuclear Weapon Maintenance or Test Procedures. ................................................  13.  Non-specialized Equipment. ...................................................................................  14.  Lifting and Suspension Systems. ............................................................................  Section D— Decertification Process  15.  Design Decertification. ...........................................................................................  16.  Operational Decertification. ....................................................................................  3 3 3 3 6 6 8 9 9 9 10 10 11 11 11 12 13 14 14 14 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 2— GROUPS, SAFETY ANALYSES, PLANS, EVALUATIONS, AND REVIEWS Attachment 3— GENERIC INDEPENDENT VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION (IV&V) PROGRAM PLAN Attachment 4— RECOMMENDED OUTLINE FOR THE NUCLEAR SURETY EVALUATION (NSE) 3 15 19 21 24      Section A—Scope and Responsibilities 1.  Program  Overview.  The USAF Nuclear Certification Program has two major components: Design  Certification  and  Operational  Certification.    The  Design  Certification  has  four  sub-components and the Nuclear Safety Design Certification is one of the sub-components.  See AFI 63-125 for complete details of the USAF Nuclear Certification Program. 2.  Program  Goal.  The  Air  Force  Nuclear  Safety  Design  Certification  Program  evaluates hardware,  software,  procedures,  and  facilities  against  specific  nuclear  safety  criteria  before  use with nuclear weapons.  The program’s goal is to prevent nuclear weapon accidents and incidents. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Acquisition)  (SAF/AQ).  SAF/AQ will ensure Program  Managers  for  nuclear  capable/certified  weapon  systems  and  nuclear  certified mission support items comply with the following requirements. 3.1.1.  Field, sustain, and maintain configuration control of hardware and software to be nuclear safety design certified throughout their life-cycle. 3.1.2.  Comply with the nuclear safety design certification program. 3.1.3.  Perform  unauthorized  launch  (UL)  studies  IAW  AFI  91-106,  Unauthorized Launch, Threat Mitigation, and Launch Action Studies. 3.1.4.  Support the TDI development and evaluation process. 3.1.5.  Evaluate Air Force use of Department of Energy (DOE)-certified equipment with nuclear  weapons  to  determine  whether  operating  environments  are  identical  and  if  any differences impact nuclear surety. 3.1.6.  Review  deficiencies  (material  deficiency  reports,  service  bulletins,  and  nuclear safety deficiency reports) for possible impact on nuclear surety or certification status and implements required corrective action. 3.1.7.  Ensure  all  Nuclear  Surety  Procedures  (NSP),  as  defined  in  AFI  91-101,  are marked with the NSP symbol to enable positive identification.  Apply special emphasis to the  NSP  to  protect  against  degrading  or  rendering  ineffective  the  critical  nuclear  safety features  of  the  weapon  system  as  determined  by  Air  Force  Safety  Center’s  Weapon Safety Division or other appropriate technical engineering authority. 4 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 3.1.8.  Develop  operational  certification  (OPCERT)  and  decertification  (DECERT) procedures. 3.2.  Chief  of  Safety  (AF/SE).  AF/SE  oversees  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Safety  Design Certification  Program  that  is  an  integral  part  of  the  overall  Air  Force  Nuclear  Certification Process. 3.3.  Air  Force  Safety  Center,  Weapons  Safety  Division  Chief  (AFSEC/SEW)  manages the nuclear safety design certification program for AF/SE.  In this role, AFSEC/SEW will: 3.3.1.  Publish  design  and  evaluation  criteria  according  to  AFI  91-107,  Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems. 3.3.2.  Review  and  coordinate  on  nuclear  certification  impact  statements  (NCIS)  that affect nuclear safety design certification. 3.3.3.  Approve the Nuclear Safety Certification annex to the Certification Requirements Plan  (CRP)  to  ensure  nuclear  safety  design  certification  requirements  are  adequately addressed. 3.3.4.  Approve  new  or  revised  test  and  weapon  maintenance  procedures  for  nuclear weapons performed in Air Force facilities, as well as approve the performance of current procedures not currently approved for a given facility. 3.3.5.  Review Nuclear Surety Evaluations (NSE) for compliance with all nuclear safety design certification requirements. 3.3.6.  Provide nuclear safety design certification of hardware, software, procedures, and facilities to be used with nuclear weapons. 3.3.7.  Issue  a  Nuclear  Safety  Certification  Letter  to  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Weapons Center  (AFNWC)  upon  completion  of  all  nuclear  safety  design  certification  actions identified in the CRP. 3.3.8.  Designate  and  certify  critical  components  according  to  AFI  91-105,  Critical Components. 3.3.9.  Certify Tamper Detection Indicators (TDI). 3.3.10.  Identify  nuclear  safety  designed  certified  hardware  and  software  items,  and restrictions  on  usage,  to  AFNWC  for  listing  in  the  Master  Nuclear  Certification  List (MNCL), located at https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm. 3.3.11.  Approve  Intercontinental  Ballistic  Missile  (ICBM)  OPCERT  and  DECERT procedures. 3.3.12.  Rescind  nuclear  safety  design  certification  of  hardware,  software,  procedures, and facilities. 3.3.13.  Review high fidelity Joint Test Assembly maintenance procedures performed in Air Force facilities. 3.4.  MAJCOM  Responsibilities.  At  bases  with  units  and  personnel  from  two  or  more MAJCOMs,  the  host/gaining  command  will  have  responsibility  for  the  MAJCOM responsibilities  outlined  in  this  section.  Memorandums  of  Understanding/Memorandums  of AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 5 Agreement may be developed between MAJCOMs to delineate the actions required by each command to meet these responsibilities.  MAJCOMs will: 3.4.1.  Designate someone to manage the nuclear certification program IAW AFI 63-125.   3.4.2.  Recommend new uses for TDIs, and request approval from AFSEC/SEW. 3.4.3.  Ensure  OPCERT  of  critical  components  before  use  and  initiate  DECERT  when needed.  3.4.4.  Ensure units report deficiencies on certified items IAW AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports. 3.4.5.  Provide  the  Program  Manager  for  the  certification  and  configuration  control  of facilities  (as  defined  in  paragraph  4.1.9.)  to  include  lifting  and  suspension  systems. Perform the following when serving as the Program Manager for facility certification: 3.4.5.1.  Prepare  NCIS  IAW  AFI  63-125  to  support  the  nuclear  safety  design certification process of Section C, paragraph 7.2. 3.4.5.2.  Develop the Nuclear Safety Certification annex to the CRP for each facility to be nuclear safety design certified IAW AFI 63-125. 3.4.5.3.  Ensure processes and guidance are in place to maintain configuration control of facilities with nuclear safety design certification. 3.4.5.4.  Conduct  NSE  of  nuclear  weapons  maintenance,  handling,  and  storage facilities. 3.4.5.5.  Review  deficiencies  (materiel  deficiency  reports,  service  bulletins,  and nuclear  safety  deficiency  reports)  for  possible  impact  on  facility  certification  status, and implement required corrective action. 3.4.5.6.  Evaluate  nuclear  surety  compliance  for  facilities  used  with  a  nuclear weapons. 3.4.6.  AFR  and  ANG  units  with  nuclear  tasked  units  or  personnel  will  provide headquarter  and  unit-level  OPRs  to  coordinate  and  assist  the  gaining  MAJCOM/Wing with the duties and responsibilities outlined in this Instruction. 3.5.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC).  In addition to the responsibilities outlined in paragraph 3.4., AFMC will through the AFNWC:    3.5.1.  Provide  independent  technical  support  (analyses,  assessments,  evaluations, reviews, etc.) to AFSEC/SEW. 3.5.2.  Maintain  archives  of  all  pertinent  documentation  related  to  nuclear  certification.  Documentation requirements are summarized in AFI63-125, Chapter 7. 3.5.3.  Ensure  AFSEC/SEW  is  notified  about  nuclear  weapon  maintenance  or  test procedures  not  defined  as  a  weapon  alteration  (ALT)  or  modification  (MOD)  (see paragraph 12.) that will be accomplished in Air Force facilities. 3.5.4.  Ensure  AFSEC/SEW  is  notified  about  nuclear  weapon  ALTs  and  MODs,  as defined in paragraph 12, that will be accomplished in Air Force facilities.  6 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Section B—Nuclear Safety Design Certification Criteria 4.  Items That Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification. 4.1.  Hardware and Software: 4.1.1.  Combat and noncombat delivery vehicles as defined in AFI 91-101. 4.1.2.  Operational and support equipment used to move, support, store, handle, load and unload, or mate and demate nuclear weapons. 4.1.3.  All  hardware  and  software  components  that  directly  interface  (electrically  or physically) with a nuclear weapon, critical component, or certified software.  4.1.4.  Items that, if failed or operating incorrectly, could degrade the nuclear command, control, and status reporting capability. 4.1.5.  Hardware and software items designated as critical components IAW AFI 91-105. 4.1.6.  All  hardware or software used to directly  control critical functions, as defined in AFI 91-107 and AFMAN 91-118. 4.1.7.  TDIs  used  to  maintain  the  OPCERT status  of  critical  components  and  protection of secure nuclear command and control codes and coded components. 4.1.8.  Operational and maintenance hardware and software used to command and control critical  functions,  and  perform  status  reporting  as  required  in  AFMAN  91-118  and AFMAN 91-119. 4.1.9.  Nuclear  Weapons  Maintenance,  Handling  and  Storage  Facilities.    Nuclear  safety design  certification  of  facilities  will  be  based  on  the  design  and  evaluation  of  essential facility systems, IAW AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119. 4.1.10.  Modifications to non-specialized equipment that could impact the item’s primary structure,  electrical  and  hydraulic  power  systems,  load-bearing  capacity,  steering  and braking capability, software, or positive control features, as well as any changes resulting in noncompliance with specific AFI 91-107 design criteria. 4.1.11.  Test equipment that: 4.1.11.1.  Verifies  the  proper  operation  of  circuits  and  functions  of  the  Unit  Under Test that perform nuclear critical functions (defined in AFI 91-107 and AFMAN 91-118). 4.1.11.2.  Interfaces directly with a nuclear weapon or operationally certified critical component. 4.1.11.3.  Is  used  to  operationally  certify,  decertify,  or  verify  proper  operation  of applicable items identified in paragraph 4.1, and all subparagraphs thereof. 4.1.11.4.  Is  used  in  special  test  or  maintenance  programs  to  identify  system anomalies or failures. 4.2.  Procedures.  Nuclear weapon system technical order procedures involving OPCERT or DECERT.  Other nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon system technical  order procedures are certified IAW AFI 63-125. AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 7 4.3.  Other.    When  items  do  not  clearly  fall  into  any  of  the  categories  identified, AFSEC/SEW determines if nuclear safety design certification is required. 4.4.  Non-Specialized  Commercial  Off-the-Shelf  Equipment  and  Other  Agency  Items.    The following  are  considered  to  be  nuclear  safety  design  certified,  and  therefore  do  not  require separate  Air  Force  nuclear  safety  design  certification  actions  provided  the  item  is  in  its original  unmodified  condition  and  is  used  in  its  intended  operating  environment  IAW approved  technical  data.    Modifications  or  deviations  from  original  manufacturer’s specifications must be approved by AFSEC/SEW. 4.4.1.  Tiedown  chains  and  cables,  straps,  and  adjusters  used  for  restraint  during transportation. 4.4.2.  Support  equipment  and  procedures  for  nuclear  logistics  movements  that  other DOD agencies have certified for nuclear weapons handling. 4.4.3.  DOE Test,  Handling, and Support  Equipment  provided by DOE to  the Air Force for  use  with  nuclear  weapons  or  nuclear  weapons  systems,  provided  the  equipment  is used  for  the  specific  purpose  intended,  as  outlined  in  approved  Joint  Nuclear  Weapons Publication  System  publications,  special  procedures,  or  authorized  Unsatisfactory Reports responses. 4.4.4.  Commercial Vehicles. 4.4.4.1.  CONUS.    Commercial  truck-tractors,  which  meet  all  of  the  following requirements,  are  nuclear  safety  design  certified.    These  vehicles  are  authorized  for towing nuclear certified semi-trailers. 4.4.4.1.1.  Manufactured in 1979 or later. 4.4.4.1.2.  Gross vehicle weight greater than 20,000 pounds. 4.4.4.1.3.  Identified  by  a  World  Manufacturer  Identifier  (WMI)  Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) first digit of a 1, 4 or 5.    4.4.4.2.  OCONUS.    Commercial  truck-tractors,  which  meet  all  the  following requirements, are nuclear safety design certified and are authorized for towing nuclear certified semi-trailers. 4.4.4.2.1.  1998 model year or later. 4.4.4.2.2.  Tractor is a type "N1 or N2" (per European Community (EC) Directive 70/156/EEC Annex II and 97/27/ EC). 4.4.4.2.3.  Meet all applicable EC standards. 4.4.4.2.4.  Must be compatible with the nuclear certified semi-trailers (i.e. braking system, electrical system, mechanical mate/de-mate, etc.). 4.4.4.2.5.  Incorporate a transmission/starter interlock system. 4.4.5.  Tow Vehicles: 4.4.5.1.  Original  equipment  pintle  hook  assemblies,  and  pin-and-clevis  couplers  are nuclear safety design certified. Replacements are considered certified if procured and installed per appropriate tech orders, used as intended, and meet  applicable industry 8 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 standards.    For  pin-and-clevis  couplers,  only  Tow  Tractor  OEM  replacements  are nuclear certified. 4.4.5.2.  Vehicles  modified  IAW  TO  36A-1-1341,  Compressed  Natural  Gas  And Alternative Fuel For Vehicular (Engine Combusted) Propulsion, or TO 36A-1-1331, Propane  Gas  Conversion  Guide  For  Vehicular  Equipment,  for  alternative  fuels  are considered  nuclear  safety  design  certified,  if  they  were  certified  in  their  unmodified state. 4.4.6.  Semi-trailers: 4.4.6.1.  Non-specialized  semi-trailers  are  considered  nuclear  safety  design  certified when  they  are  in  original  unmodified  condition  and  meet  applicable  industry standards. 4.4.6.2.  The  addition  of  a  certified  rollerized  conveyor  or  other  like  item  to  an uncertified trailer does not certify that trailer, even if the stock number changes to a certified number.  To have a certified unit, both the trailer and the modification kit are required to be separately certified. 5.  Items That Do Not Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification. 5.1.  Common items: 5.1.1.  General purpose hand tools, such as pliers, wrenches, and screwdrivers. 5.1.2.  Depot  and  intermediate-level  test  equipment,  if  the  critical  circuits  of  the  tested items are verified at the organizational level before use with nuclear weapons. 5.1.3.  Common, multipurpose, and non-specialized test equipment, such as multimeters, decade resistance boxes, and impedance bridges unless the equipment directly interfaces with nuclear weapons or end item that is nuclear safety design certified. 5.1.4.  Delivery,  Loading,  Mating,  Maintenance,  and  Explosive  Ordnance  Disposal (EOD) Training Equipment. All Air Force equipment designed and used for proficiency training, such  as full-scale and miniature practice delivery bombs and bomb  dispensers, practice  loading  bombs  and  warheads,  training  re-entry  vehicles  and  payload  sections, EOD  disassembly/reassembly  training  equipment,  etc.,  does  not  require  nuclear  safety design  certification.    Nuclear  training  shapes  containing  conventional  explosives  may require Non-nuclear Munitions Safety Board (NNMSB) certification per AFI 91-205. 5.1.5.  Aircraft Mission Planning Software.  Aircraft mission planning system software is not  nuclear  safety  design  certified.  However,  aircraft  mission  planning  software  that transfers  operational  flight  program  (OFP)  software  and  cruise  missile  targeting  data must  ensure  the  integrity  of  data  during  this  process  is  maintained.  Mission  planning systems must be designed and implemented such that: 5.1.5.1.  During  the  transfer  from  one  media  source  to  another,  the  OFP  software containing nuclear critical functions and the mission data containing nuclear targeting data are not altered. 5.1.5.2.  Integrity of the data is maintained when loaded on the aircraft. AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 9 5.1.5.3.  Procedures are formulated and implemented that satisfy these nuclear surety requirements  and  ensure  future  software  revisions  will  not  alter  those  modules  that perform the verification tasks. 5.1.5.4.  New  mission  planning  systems  (e.g.,  Joint  Mission  Planning  System)  must be documented in an NSE and submitted to AFSEC/SEW for approval with a copy to AFNWC to document the manipulation, processing and protection of flight software and nuclear targeting data. 5.2.  Items  listed  in  the  General  Guidance  section  of  the  MNCL  as  having  blanket certification, provided they are in original, unmodified condition and used for their intended purpose.   6.  Additional  Requirements.  The following requirements apply to critical components, TDIs, special  test  and  maintenance  programs,  and  host  nation-operated  weapon  systems  and procedures: 6.1.  Critical  components  also  require  OPCERT  before  use  in  operational  systems  to  verify the  component  is  functioning  as  design  certified.    (Refer  to  AFI  91-105  and  AFI  91-106).  Certain critical components also require specific procedures for DECERT. 6.2.  TDIs may be used to protect the certification status of critical components, if sufficient justification exists for their use.  However, TDIs may not be used to substitute Two-Person Concept  control  of  codes,  coded  devices,  or  critical  components  when  an  operational  code that  cannot  be  overwritten  passes  through  it  or  if  the  code  component  or  device  has  no operational  decertification  procedure.    TDIs  used  in  an  operational  system  are  identified  in the  safety  rules  for  the  affected  nuclear  weapon  system  IAW  AFI  91-104,  Nuclear  Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs. 6.3.  Special  test  or  maintenance  programs  conducted  in  operational  facilities  that  are  not covered by certified procedures must be approved by AFSEC/SEW. 6.4.  When  used  with  nuclear  weapons  in  Air  Force  custody,  host  nation-operated  nuclear weapon systems and procedures must satisfy the same nuclear safety criteria required for Air Force systems and procedures. Section C—Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process 7.  Nuclear  Safety  Design  Certification  Process  for  New  or  Modified  Weapon  System Hardware, Procedures, Facilities, and Software.  Use the following paragraphs in conjunction with AFI 63-125 to determine the steps and timelines for the nuclear safety design certification process. 7.1.  The  operational  MAJCOM  or  Program  Manager  identifies  items  that  may  require nuclear safety design certification according to paragraph 4. (T-1). 7.1.1.  The  program  manager  (for  facilities,  the  program  manager  refers  to  the  lead  or using  command)  must  maintain  configuration  control  of  identified  hardware,  software, and facilities to be nuclear safety design certified throughout their life-cycle. (T-1).  7.2.  For  new  weapon  systems  or  weapon  system  modifications,  the  Program  Manager  or MAJCOM prepares an NCIS IAW AFI 63-125.   10 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 7.2.1.  The  NCIS  must  address  those  items  that  require  certification  and  recommend  a certification approach for verifying compliance with AFI 91-106, AFI 91-107, AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119.  7.3.  As the development or modification effort nears completion (determined by the required operational  capability  or  certification  need  date),  the  Program  Manager  or  MAJCOM prepares  a  NSE  according  to  Attachment  2,  paragraph  A2.2.,  and  Attachment  4.    This document will include a recommendation for nuclear safety design certification IAW A4.1 of Attachment  4.    Submit  the  evaluation  and  certification  recommendation  to  AFSEC/  SEW.  Provide  a  copy  to  AFNWC.    If  required,  AFSEC/SEW  will  task  AFNWC  to  perform  an independent NSE.  NOTE:  For new (and some modified) weapon systems, a Nuclear Safety Analysis Report typically serves as the NSE. (T-1). 7.3.1.  If a safety study is required, as defined in DODM 3150.02, DOD Nuclear Weapon System  Safety  Program  Manual,  submit  the  evaluation  to  AFSEC/SEW  120  calendar days  before  the  study  IAW  AFI  91-102,  Nuclear  Weapon  System  Safety  Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules. 7.3.2.  If a safety study is not required, submit the evaluation 60 calendar days before the required operational capability or certification need date.   7.4.  When  tasked  by  AFSEC/SEW,  AFNWC  evaluates  the  design,  evaluation,  and certification recommendation according to Attachment 2, paragraph A2.3., and provides this assessment to AFSEC/SEW. 7.4.1.  When a safety study is  required, this assessment is submitted as required by AFI 91-102 in the form of a Technical Nuclear Safety Analysis. 7.4.2.  If a safety study is not required, AFNWC must submit the assessment 20 calendar days before the required operational capability or certification need date. 7.5.  AFSEC/SEW will provide a Nuclear Safety Design Certification letter to AFNWC IAW AFI 63-125.  NOTE:   Restrictions on the use of items in a nuclear role may be imposed to compensate for design deficiencies or significant operational hazards. 7.6.  For  host  nation-owned  nuclear  weapon  systems,  the  host  nation  as  Program  Manager shall submit nuclear safety design certification documentation through AFNWC Engineering Liaison  Office  (ELO).    ELO  will  interface  between  the  host  nation  and  the  USAF  on  all nuclear safety design certification processes and issues. 8.  Certification Process for Nuclear Safety Design Certified Technical Order Procedures. 8.1.  AFSEC/SEW  approves  new  or  major  changes  to  OPCERT/DECERT  procedures  for critical  components.    These  procedures  must  adequately  verify  the  system  or  component functions as design certified and mitigates all credible threats and scenarios. 8.2.  AFSEC/SEW approves troubleshooting and maintenance procedures and operations on loaded nuclear weapons systems, as identified by Program Manager. 9.  Critical  Components.  For  nuclear  safety  design  certification  of  critical  components,  the organization with program management responsibility: 9.1.  Initiates the design certification process for hardware and software. (T-1). AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 11 9.2.  Provides for a nuclear safety cross-check analysis (NSCCA) or independent  validation and  verification  (IV&V)  of  software  critical  components  according  to  Attachment  2, paragraph A2.4. (T-1). 9.3.  Develops  OPCERT  and  DECERT  procedures  for  hardware  critical  components  and sends the procedures to AFSEC/SEW for approval. (T-1). 10.  Tamper Detection Indicators (TDIs). 10.1.  For  certification of TDIs, the operational  MAJCOM or Program  Manager determines the need for TDI application and sends a request to AFSEC/SEW that: 10.1.1.  Identifies the critical component requiring a TDI. (T-1). 10.1.2.  Justifies why a TDI is needed. (T-1). 10.1.3.  States whether the TDI will be used in an operational system or a nonoperational environment for storage and transportation. (T-1). 10.2.  AFSEC/SEW evaluates the TDI application request and sends the approved application to the National Security Agency (NSA) for development of a suitable TDI. 10.3.  By agreement, the NSA: 10.3.1.  Develops  the  appropriate  TDI,  based  on  the  parameters  and  intended-use  data provided by the operational MAJCOM. 10.3.2.  Coordinates  TDI  development  with management responsibility. the  organization  having  program 10.3.3.  Sends  the  TDI  data  required  for  application,  control,  storage,  and  inspection procedures to AFSEC/SEW for certification. 10.4.  The  requesting  MAJCOM  maintains  responsibility  for  all  procurement  actions  and costs associated with TDI development and integration. 10.5.  Upon  approval  of  the  application,  the  Program  Manager  provides  the  technical requirements to the NSA and develops the NSE required to obtain certification. 11.  Special Test and Maintenance Programs. 11.1.  The  Program  Manager  must  evaluate  all  aspects  of  the  proposed  program(s)  for potential nuclear surety  degradation.   This  evaluation includes conditions  that could  violate AFI  91-107  requirements,  degrade  safety  and  security  features  of  the  weapon  system,  or contribute to an AFI 91-106 scenario. (T-1). 11.2.  The Program Manager provides this evaluation and requests approval of the proposed program(s) from AFSEC/SEW. (T-1). 11.3.  AFSEC/SEW  bases  the  approval  decision  on  the  findings  of  the  evaluation  and  an independent  review  of  the  proposed  program(s)  (if  required).    A  special  safety  study  may also be required IAW AFI 91-102. 12.  Nuclear Weapon Maintenance or Test Procedures. 12.1.  Program  Manager  of  the  facility  will  perform  an  evaluation/review  of  all  new  or revised nuclear weapon maintenance or test procedures in relation to the facility where they 12 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 are  to  be  performed,  as  well  as  evaluate/review  the  performance  of  procedures  not specifically approved for a given facility. (T-1). 12.2.  AFSEC/SEW  must  approve  implementation  of  all  new  or  revised  nuclear  weapon maintenance  or  test  procedures  that  will  be  accomplished  in  Air  Force  facilities,  as  well  as approve  the  performance  of  current  procedures  not  currently  approved  for  a  given  facility.  Example programs include: 12.2.1.  Programs to accomplish warhead ALTs and MODs. 12.2.2.  Any programs that require bypassing or disabling any weapon safety features. 12.2.3.  Procedures  that  introduce  new  or  significant  potential  safety  hazards,  e.g., sources of electrical energy, fire hazards, etc. 12.3.  AFNWC must notify AFSEC/SEW of weapon ALTs or MODs and any other new or revised maintenance or test procedures accomplished in Air Force facilities. 12.3.1.  The  notification  via  a  Statement  of  Intent  (SOI)  will  initiate  an  AF  safety review/evaluation of the proposed procedures in relation to the facility where they are to be performed and must: 12.3.1.1.  Provide background information and describe the maintenance action to be performed. 12.3.1.2.  Identify proposed temporary removal, bypass, or disablement of the surety features  of  the  weapon  itself,  and  provide  general  information  concerning  the susceptibility present due to the temporary removal, bypass, or disablement of these surety features. 12.3.1.3.  Specify the Air Force facility where the procedures will be performed. 12.4.  For Product Change Proposals, AFNWC will submit the notification SOI no later than 180 days before scheduled maintenance.  For Special Procedures and Retrofit Orders, submit the notification when it is distributed for Air Force review/coordination. 12.5.  AFSEC approval (via formal documentation) must be obtained before implementation of procedures described in paragraphs 12.2. and 12.3. 13.  Non-specialized  Equipment.  Any  equipment  used  with  nuclear  weapons,  but  not specifically  designed  for  that  purpose,  is  considered  non-specialized  equipment,  specifically, items  listed  in  paragraphs  4.4  through  4.4.6.2.    Certain  modifications  to  non-specialized equipment  do  not  require  formal  nuclear  safety  design  certification.    These  modifications include: 13.1.  Common add-on equipment such as fire extinguishers, radios, lights, bedliners, camper shells, sirens, foreign object damage magnets or containers. 13.2.  Minor field-level modifications to vehicles or aerospace ground equipment that do not impact the braking, steering, lifting, powertrain, or load carrying/restraint systems. 13.3.  The  following  process  should  be  used    by  the  field  unit  to  determine  the  appropriate course of action for evaluation and local approval of minor field-level modifications. AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 13 13.3.1.  Identify  item(s)  to  be  modified,  and  provide  a  complete  description  of  the proposed changes to the item Maintenance Supervisor/Superintendent (or equivalent) and the  Unit  Safety  Office.    These  offices  will  jointly  review  the  proposed  modification  to determine  if  approval  can  be  granted  at  the  unit  level  or  if  further  evaluation  of  the nuclear safety impact is necessary.(T-1). 13.3.1.1.  If there is no impact to nuclear surety, approve the modification locally. required,  submit  a 13.3.1.2.  If evaluation/approval from the using MAJCOM’s safety office. further  evaluation is formal request for 13.3.2.  If formal nuclear safety design certification is not required, the using MAJCOM will: 13.3.2.1.  Provide formal approval to the field unit. 13.3.2.2.  Inform modification. the  Program  Manager  and  AFSEC/SEW  of the  approved 13.3.3.  If  the  modification  requires  formal  nuclear  safety  design  certification,  the  using MAJCOM will: 13.3.3.1.  Notify the submitter that further evaluation is necessary. 13.3.3.2.  Follow the process specified in paragraph 7. 13.3.4.  For  all  non-specialized  equipment  (including  foreign  manufactured,  US  or  host nation  owned),  the  host  nation  as  Program  Manager  shall  submit  certification documentation  through  AFNWC’s  ELO.    ELO  will  serve  as  the  interface  between  the host nation and the USAF on all nuclear safety certification processes and issues. (T-1). 14.  Lifting and Suspension Systems. 14.1.  The  owning  command  performs  a  NSE  and  sends  a  certification  request  to AFSEC/SEW, according to paragraph 7.4. 14.2.  A design or civil engineering agency evaluates the facility that will support the lifting or suspension system to determine if the structure meets the design requirements in AFMAN 91-118.  This evaluation and appropriate analysis that the structure is safe for the rated load and meets the required margins of safety, IAW AFMAN 91-118, must be included with the lead/using command’s NSE. (T-1). 14.3.  An  inspection  and  maintenance  cycle  for  each  certified  facility  lifting  system  will  be established IAW  AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.  14.4.  The lead/using command is authorized to use suspended load-frame assemblies at 100 percent of their rated load.  Suspended load frames do not require periodic load testing, but must be periodically inspected. 14.5.  The  lead/using  command  evaluates  item  or  facility  support  structure  modifications  to determine their impact on the certification status. 14.6.  AFSEC/SEW  nuclear  safety  design  certifies  the  facility  lifting  system  and  notifies AFNWC.  The AFNWC will then update the MNCL accordingly. 14 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Section D—Decertification Process 15.  Design Decertification. 15.1.  AFSEC/SEW  may  remove  nuclear  safety  design  certification  for  items  that  have demonstrated inadequate safety through analysis, testing, or operational performance. 15.2.  Any  Air  Force  agency  may  send  a  recommendation  for  removal  of  nuclear  safety design certification to AFSEC/SEW.  The recommendation must identify the item as listed in the MNCL and include documentation that supports the recommendation. 15.3.  Removal  of  nuclear  safety  design  certification  is  done  via  a  formal  notification  letter from AFSEC/SEW to AFNWC, with courtesy copies forwarded to MAJCOM Safety Offices. 15.4.  An  individual  nuclear  safety  design  certified  item  may  be  restricted  from  use  with nuclear  weapons  any  time  for  any  reason  (e.g.,  damage,  modifications,  or  changes  to intended  usage,  etc.).    Such  restrictions  do  not  constitute  removal  of  nuclear  safety  design certification.    However,  appropriate  documentation  in  historical  or  permanent  records  is required  to  preclude  inadvertent  use.    Submit  request  via  memorandum  to  AFSEC/SEW  to restrict  specific  item(s)  from  use.    AFSEC/SEW  will  notify  AFNWC  to  update  the  MNCL accordingly and provide a courtesy copy of notification to MAJCOM Safety Offices. 16.  Operational Decertification. 16.1.  Critical components that have been improperly stored or not maintained IAW AFI 91-105 require decertification, if the resulting mishap investigation does not positively rule out tampering.    Decertification  is  also  required  if  a  critical  component  is  connected  to  an uncertified  interface  (i.e.,  not  certified  via  OPCERT  procedures  or  through  nuclear  safety design certification approval as documented in this publication). 16.2.  Operational  MAJCOMs  may  decertify  critical  components,  if  they  use  approved decertification  procedures  (when  applicable)  and  the  intended  life  cycle  for  the  critical component does not specifically prohibit decertification.  ANDREW M. MUELLER Major General, USAF Chief of Safety AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 15 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  References DOD Directive 3150.02, DoD Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 24 April 2013 DODM 3150.02, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program Manual, 31 January 2014 AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011 AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012  AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 December 2010 AFI 63-101_20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 Mar 2013 w/IC-2, 23 February 2015 AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 8 August 2012  AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 15 August 2014  AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules, 25 February 2014 AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, 23 April 2013 AFI 91-105, Critical Components, 2 August 2013 AFI 91-106, Unauthorized Launch, Threat Mitigation, and Launch Action Studies, 30 June 2015  AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 11 December 2012 AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012 AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 February 2014  AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008  AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 28 July 2015 AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software, 5 June 2012   AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 8 November 2010 AFPD 13-5, Air ForceNuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011 Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm TO 36A-1-1331, Propane Gas Conversion Guide for Vehicular Equipment, 1 September 1983 TO 36A-1-1341, Compressed Natural Gas and Alternative Fuel for Vehicular (Engine Combusted) Propulsion, 1 September 1985 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  16 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Abbreviations and Acronyms  AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command  AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center AFPEO—Air Force Program Executive Office AFR—Air Force Reserve AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center AFSEC/SEW—AFSEC, Weapons Safety Division  AFSEC/SEWN—AFSEC/SEW, Nuclear Weapons Branch AFTO—Air Force Technical Order AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment  ALT—Alteration ANG—Air National Guard CONUS—Continental United States COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf  CRP—Certification Requirements Plan  DECERT—Operational Decertification DAO—Designated Acquisition Official  DOD—Department of Defense DOE—Department of Energy EC—European Community  ELO—Engineering Liaison Office EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal FOD—Foreign Object Damage  IAW—In Accordance With ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile  IV&V—Independent Validation and Verification JMPS—Joint Mission Planning System JNWPS—Joint Nuclear Weapons Publication System JTA—Joint Test Assembly MAJCOM—Major Command AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 17 MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification List MOD—Modification NCIS—Nuclear Certification Impact Statement  NCM—Nuclear Certification Manager NSA—National Security Agency NSAR—Nuclear Safety Analysis Report  NSCCA—Nuclear Safety Cross-Check Analysis NSE—Nuclear Surety Evaluation NSO—Nuclear Safety Objective NSP—Nuclear Surety Procedures NSR—Nuclear Safety Requirement OCONUS—Outside Continental United States OFP—Operational Flight Program  OPCERT—Operational Certification  PCP—Product Change Proposal PM—Program Manager RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RO—Retrofit Orders SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition SDP—System Program Director SOI—Statement of Intent SP—Special Procedures  TDI—Tamper Detection Indicator  TNSA—Technical Nuclear Safety Analysis  TO—Technical Order  TOMA—Technical Order Management Agency  UL—Unauthorized Launch UR—Unsatisfactory Report USAF—United States Air Force Terms Definitions—For  additional  definitions,  see  AFI  91-101,  Air  Force  Nuclear  Weapons  Surety Program. 18 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Master  Nuclear  Certification  List  (MNCL)—Identifies  equipment,  hardware,  facilities  and software  that  are  certified  IAW  AFI  63-125.  The  MNCL  is  the  sole  source  for  verifying  the nuclear certification status of nuclear certified equipment (system, hardware, software).  Nuclear Certification Impact Statement (NCIS)—Document issued by the Program Manager to initiate the certification process of an item/software, etc. This statement advises AFNWC that a  new  weapon  system  or  a  change  to  an  existing  weapon  system,  equipment  item,  software, facility, or procedure needs to be evaluated for its impact to the nuclear certification status of a weapon system. The NCIS must be submitted at least 45 days before the release of a request for proposal or an equivalent program milestone.  Program  Manager  (PM)—The  PM,  as  defined  in  AFI  63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Lifecycle Management, is the designated individual with the responsibility for and authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s operational needs. For facilities, the PM is the operational MAJCOM vested with life cycle management and configuration  control  responsibility  for  the  facility.  Note:    Terms  such  as  Single  Manager  or Single Program Manager are no longer used in the Acquisition Enterprise AFI 63-101/20-101.  AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 19 Attachment 2 GROUPS, SAFETY ANALYSES, PLANS, EVALUATIONS, AND REVIEWS  A2.1.  Nuclear  Surety  Working  Group  (ICBMs)  and  Nuclear  Weapon  Delivery  System Project Officer Groups: A2.1.1.  For  ground-launched  missile  systems,  a  nuclear  surety  working  group  is  used  to coordinate  nuclear  surety  requirements  among  the  various  agencies  involved  in  nuclear certification.   A2.1.2.  For  aircraft  and  air-launched  missile  systems,  a  delivery  systems  project  officer’s group is used to coordinate nuclear certification issues.  A2.2.  Nuclear  Surety  Evaluation  (NSE).  Evaluates  hardware,  software,  facilities,  and procedures  to  be  nuclear  safety  design  certified,  using  the  approved  certification  approach  (as identified in the CRP).  The NSE focuses on all AFI 91-107, AFMAN 91-118, and AFMAN 91-119  design  and  evaluation  criteria  applicable  to  the  item.    It  includes  a  recommendation  for certification  or  certification  with  restrictions  (to  meet  AFI  91-107,  AFMAN  91-118,  and AFMAN 91-119).  A2.3.  Independent Nuclear Surety Evaluation.  The independent nuclear surety evaluation:  A2.3.1.  Is  of  sufficient  depth  to  ensure  the  nuclear  surety  evaluation  is  technically  correct and complete.  A2.3.2.  Specifically addresses the design requirements.  A2.3.3.  Indicates if the design meets AFI 91-107, AFMAN 91-118, and AFMAN 91-119.  A2.3.4.  When  requirements  are  not  met,  the  evaluation  must  include  comments  and documentation on adequacy of compensatory measures and specify if the reviewing agency concurs with the evaluating agency’s recommendation for nuclear safety design certification.  A2.3.5.  For  host-nation  procured  support  equipment,  the  independent  nuclear  surety evaluation  is  conducted  internally  during  the  NSE  development  process  conducted  by AFMC’s engineering liaison office.  A2.4.  Software  Evaluations.  Nuclear  critical  software  evaluation  can  be  accomplished  by NSCCA,  or  IV&V,  or  regression  testing.    Nuclear  safety  design  certified  software  can  be evaluated by IV&V or other Quality Assurance analyses as delineated in the CRP.  AFMAN 91-119  provides  guidelines  for  determining  the  method  of,  and  criteria  for,  evaluation.  Requirements  for  software  evaluation  can  range  from  full  NSCCA  to  qualification  testing, depending  on  the  relationship  to  critical  functions  (authorization,  prearming,  launching, releasing,  arming,  and  targeting).    Additional  factors  include  the  potential  for  UL  threats  and scenarios.  Although these evaluations use many similar techniques, they are typically performed by different organizations, have different objectives, and produce different results. NSCCA and IV&V are performed by an organization technically, managerially, and financially independent of  the  developer.    AFSEC/SEW  will  make  the  final  determination  regarding  independency requirements.  A2.4.1.  An NSCCA has the single objective of ensuring that the program cannot perform in any  way  that  could  contribute  to  a  nuclear  safety  violation.    Analysis  and  testing  focus  on 20 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 ensuring  that  nuclear  safety-critical  functions  are  performed  correctly  and  that  the  program does not perform any unintended functions that could violate nuclear safety.  The NSCCA is also unique in its concern for sabotage.  While the other forms of software evaluation assume that any program deficiencies will be unintentional, the NSCCA also looks for intentionally caused  problems  and  employs  special  security  and  control  measures  to  prevent  sabotage  of the  NSCCA  effort  itself.    An  NSCCA  begins  with  the  development  of  nuclear  safety objectives  (NSOs)  and  nuclear  safety  requirements  (NSRs).    NSOs  represent  the  overall objectives  a  nuclear  weapon  system  must  satisfy  in  order  to  obtain  nuclear  safety certification.    NSRs  form  the  basis  for  all  subsequent  NSCCA  activities.    A  traceability analysis is performed to demonstrate that all NSOs are represented in the NSRs and that all NSRs are derived from one or more NSOs.  The NSCCA is completed by conducting a bit-for-bit  comparison  (under  the  Two-Person  Concept)  between  the  software  delivered  to  the operational MAJCOM and the software analyzed by the NSCCA organization.  A2.4.2.  Independent  Validation  and  Verification  (IV&V).    IV&V  is  a  software  evaluation process that includes both analysis and testing and extends throughout program development.  “Verification”  analyzes  software  requirements,  design,  and  code  to  detect  program deficiencies before they can propagate into later development phases.  “Validation” analyzes and  tests  the  final  program  to  determine  its  compliance  with  requirements.    IV&V  is distinguished  from  qualification  testing  by  its  emphasis  on  detecting  program  weaknesses and  unforeseen  circumstances  that  the  program  will  be  unable  to  handle.    Attachment  3 provides  a  generic  IV&V  program  plan  to  define  the  approach  used  by  the  IV&V contractor/evaluation team in support of software nuclear safety design certification. A2.4.3.  Regression  Testing.    Regression  testing  is  the  selective  retesting  of  a  software system that has been modified to ensure any errors or defects have been fixed, and no other previously working functions have failed as a result of the reparations, and that newly added features have not created problems with previous versions of the software.  It is initiated after a  programmer  has  attempted  to  fix  a  recognized  problem  or  has  added  source  code  to  a program  that  may  have  inadvertently  introduced  errors.    It  is  a  quality  control  measure  to ensure  that  newly  modified  code  still  complies  with  its  specified  requirements  and  that unmodified code has not been affected by the maintenance activity.  AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 21 Attachment 3 GENERIC INDEPENDENT VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION (IV&V) PROGRAM PLAN  A3.1.  Purpose.  The  purpose  of  this  program  plan  is  to  define  the  approach  to  be  used  by  the IV&V  contractor/evaluation  team  in  support  of  nuclear  safety  design  certification  of  the software/firmware in question.  The overall nuclear safety design certification effort is defined in another program plan.  Nuclear certification of software/firmware is one of the positive measures the  Air  Force  uses  to  assure  that  the  software/firmware,  as  designed,  coded,  and  implemented, complies  with  the  DOD  Nuclear  Weapon  System  Surety  Standards  (DOD  Directive  3150.02, DoD Nuclear Weapons Surety Program ) and meets the safety design and evaluation criteria for nuclear weapon systems in AFI 91-107.  A3.2.  Equipment/System Description.  This section provides a brief description of the weapon system that will allow the reader to understand the functional and nuclear safety implications of the  weapon  system.    Where  individual  software/firmware  pieces  are  involved,  provide  a  brief description  of  each  item  at  the  block  diagram  level.    A  brief  description  includes  performance requirements  and  software/firmware  design  showing  correlation  to  requirements  and  stressing features that provide nuclear surety.  A3.3.  IV&V Concepts. A3.3.1.  “Validation”  is  the  test  and  evaluation  process  that  ensures  the  software/firmware meets  all  system  and  software  performance  requirements;  “verification”  is  the  repetitive process  for  ensuring  that,  during  each  development  phase,  the  software/firmware  satisfies and implements only those requirements approved at the end of the previous phase.  For the purpose of nuclear safety, the validation and verification effort has primary emphasis placed on  the  nuclear  safety  issues  identified  below.    Using  an  independent  contractor  to  perform this task adds an additional layer of confidence and security to the process.  in is identifying this  effort the  nuclear  safety  contributions  and  how A3.3.2.  The  IV&V  effort  will  concentrate  on  the  software/firmware  functions  that  must  be verified  to  obtain  nuclear  safety  design  certification  in  accordance  with  this  AFI.    The  key step the software/firmware  could  possibly  impact  or  affect  the  weapon  system  nuclear  critical functions,  as  defined  in  AFMAN  91-118.    These  critical  functions  are:  authorization, launching/releasing, warhead prearming/arming, and targeting.  All of the software/firmware functions  and  capabilities  will  be  evaluated  to  determine  the  level  and  extent  of  their contributions,  resulting the  above  critical  functions.  Contributions  that  cause  a  possible  degradation  of  nuclear  safety  or  performance  will  be reported as discrepancies for program office evaluation.  in  nuclear  safety impacts to A3.3.3.  All  nuclear  safety  discrepancies  will  be  identified,  evaluated,  and  prioritized according to their potential impact on nuclear safety.  A priority scheme is used to evaluate nuclear  safety  discrepancies  and  determine  their  impact  on  nuclear  safety  (Critical,  Urgent, Degraded, Noncritical, Minor).  A3.3.4.  The results obtained from the IV&V effort will be included in the final IV&V report and  will  also  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  demonstration  test  plan  and  NSE  report.  Inputs will also be made to the qualification demonstration, and data will be examined from 22 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 those tests with regard to verification of the software/firmware.  Finally, the data from these efforts will be maintained in a database at the program office to support future modifications and technical order updates.  A3.4.  IV&V  Approach.  This  section  describes  the  specific  approach  that  will  be  taken  to conduct the IV&V effort.  A3.4.1.  Test  Plan.    The  IV&V  contractor  designs  and  conducts  tests  to  verify  the software/firmware  design  complies  with  AFI  91-107.    This  test  approach  is  detailed  in  the IV&V Test Plan.  A3.4.2.  Configuration  Control.    The  program  office  will  maintain  configuration  control.  This  task  may  be  contracted  out,  but  the  ultimate  responsibility  for  configuration  control remains with  the program  manager.  Discrepancy  reports will address  performance, as well as nuclear safety aspects of the software/firmware functions and capabilities.  These reports will  provide  all  pertinent  information  (such  as  problem  areas,  descriptions,  impacts,  and recommendations) required to pursue appropriate action.  A3.4.3.  Analysis  Tools.    To  implement  the  IV&V  approach  effectively,  specific  analysis tools  may  be  developed  to  perform  both  the  tracing  studies  and  the  software/firmware checkout.    The  analysis  tools  themselves  will  be  validated  to  the  degree  required  to  ensure accuracy and completeness.  A3.4.4.  AFI Compliance.  AFI 91-107 and AFMAN 91-119 will be used to guide and direct the  IV&V  efforts.  Particular  attention  will  be  given  to  memory  organization,  fault detection/handling capabilities, and adequacy of self-test circuitry.  A summary table should show compliance and the specific analysis or demonstration efforts.  A3.4.5.  Source  Code  Testing.    The  source  code  is  checked  for  implementation,  using  the Computer  Program  Development  Specification  and  the  Computer  Program  Product Specification.    Items  that  will  be  checked  are  the  code  structure,  decision/branch  points, input/output  handling,  and  module  coupling.    The  test  plan  outlines  the  steps  to  check  the source  code  at  both  the  modular  and/or  functional  level  for  those  areas  impacting  nuclear safety.  A “test requirements" checklist versus a "test approach" checklist will be generated to determine  how  functions  will  be  verified.    A  "master  procedures"  checklist  will  be constructed  to  identify  which  tests  are  exercised  for  each  module  (or  logical  group  of modules).  The tests will be a combination of manual analysis and development site testing.  A3.4.6.  Test  Results  Report.    A  test  results  report  will  discuss  the  software/firmware  code checkout  effort.  Summary  result  tables  will  be  provided.    All  discrepancy  reports  with  an evaluation and recommendation for resolution will be included.  A3.4.7.  Object Code Testing.  Once the source code is checked, it will be compiled into an executable object  code.  For  ground-launched missile systems,  a bit-by-bit  compare against the object code delivered by the development contractor will be accomplished.  Differences will  be  identified  and  explained.    Discrepancies  will  be  documented  and  resolution recommended.  A3.4.8.  Final  Report.    A  final  report  will  include  IV&V  results.    The  report  will  evaluate whether  the  software/firmware  satisfies  AFI  91-107  design  standards  and,  via  the discrepancy  reports,  will  identify  any  known  nuclear  surety  concerns.    The  report  will AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 23 conclude  with  a  recommendation  on  nuclear  safety  design  certification.    The  report  will  be included as part of the NSE.  A3.5.  Schedules.  Significant milestones are submittal/approval of IV&V Program Plan, IV&V Test Plan, Final IV&V Report, and the NSE report.  The first two items are especially critical to the success of IV&V.  24 AFI91-103  24 MARCH 2016 Attachment 4 RECOMMENDED OUTLINE FOR THE NUCLEAR SURETY EVALUATION (NSE) A4.1.  Certification Action.  Recommend certification or certification with restrictions (to meet AFI 91-107).  A4.2.  Item Identification.  For hardware or software (as applicable) provide:  A4.2.1.  Nomenclature or common name. A4.2.2.  National item identification number.  A4.2.3.  Manufacturer and code. A4.2.4.  Model and part number.  A4.2.5.  Computer program identification number.  A4.2.6.  Item manager (include the functional address symbol and telephone number).  A4.3.  Uses and Description.  Provide information on:  A4.3.1.  Equipment uses.  A4.3.2.  Weapons.  A4.3.3.  Weapon types (as considered in the analysis).  A4.3.4.  Top-level description.  A4.4.  Summary of Engineering Analysis (Evaluation and Test): A4.4.1.  Identify the specific AFI 91-106, AFI 91-107, AFMAN 91-118 and/or AFMAN 91-119 criteria used in the design and evaluation process for the item.  A4.4.2.  Discuss the certification approach used (compliance verification methods).  A4.4.3.  Identify or reference the specific test and analysis procedures used.  A4.4.4.  Summarize  the  results  of  the  certification  analysis,  and  discuss  any  discrepancies identified during the evaluation and their disposition.  A4.5.  Recommended  Restrictions.  Recommend  any  restrictions  needed  to  compensate  for uncorrected design deficiencies or discrepancies.   