BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-151 12 MAY 2017 Test and Evaluation AIR LAUNCHED MUNITION ANALYSIS GROUP (ALMAG)     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/TEP  Supersedes:  AFI99-151, 10 August 2005  Certified by: AF/TE  (Col Hans H. Miller) Pages: 13 This instruction implements AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process.  It establishes procedures, guidance and responsibilities for using the Air Launched Munition Analysis Group (ALMAG) to investigate  air-launched  guided  munition,  missile,  and  unmanned  full/sub-scale  aerial  target mishaps  and  incidents  in  which  drone  peculiar  equipment  (DPE)  is  suspected  as  the  mishap cause and occur during either major developmental test (DT), operational test (OT), or in major command  (MAJCOM)-conducted  testing  like  force  development  evaluations  (FDE),  Weapon System  Evaluation  Program  (WSEP),  or  other  Test  and  Evaluation  missions.    This  instruction applies only to  units and organizations, including CAF, who are involved as such in the testing of  guided  weapons.    For  purposes  of  this  instruction,  the  definition  of  CAF  in  Attachment  1 applies.    This  instruction  is  not  applicable  if  the  convening  authority  mandates  a  safety investigation in  accordance with  AFI  91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,    Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command to the Director of Test and Evaluation, Policy, Programs and Resources Division (AF/TEP) workflow (usaf.pentagon.af-te.mbx.af-tep-workflow@mail.mil)  or  1610  Air  Force  Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1610.  This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and  approval.    The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated 2 AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance  items.    Ensure  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication must be completely reviewed as it has been substantially revised to adhere with revisions to AFI 91-204 and AFMAN 91-221.  AFMAN 91-221 now authorizes use of ALMAG investigation  procedures.    The  scope  of  ALMAG  investigation  and  reporting  was  expanded  to include mishaps with  all guided munitions, missiles, and unmanned full/sub-scale aerial targets in  which  DPE  is  suspected.    Additionally,  at  the  convening  authority’s  discretion,  ALMAG investigation and reporting may be used for other incidents not classified as mishaps.  The term “MAJCOM  Program  Manager”  was  changed  to  “MAJCOM  representative”  for  clarity.    The ALMAG  final  report  timeline  was  extended  to  90  days,  and  recommended  reporting  formats were  added  at  Attachment  2,  Reporting  Formats,  for  ready  reference.    Formal  reporting  was clarified.    Compliance  statements  were  tiered  IAW  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management. AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 3 Chapter 1 GENERAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES 1.1.  General  Policy.  This  AFI  outlines  Air  Force  policy  on  investigating  inflight  guided munition, missile, and unmanned full/sub-scale aerial target mishaps and incidents in which DPE is suspected and that occur during force development evaluation (FDE), WSEP or other Test and Evaluation missions conducted during the sustainment portion of the system life cycle.  This AFI does not apply to surface-launched munitions, or missiles.  The Air Launched Munition Analysis Group  (ALMAG)  will  conduct  appropriate  investigations  to  determine  the  cause(s)  of  failure.  (T-1).    ALMAGs  are  not  conducted  under  the  umbrella  of  privileged  safety  information,  and ALMAGs will not make promises of confidentiality. 1.2.  Purpose  of  the  ALMAG.  The  ALMAG  is  a  mechanism  for  performing  timely  and thorough failure analysis and investigations in lieu of a formal safety investigation for incidents taking place during FDE, WSEP or other Test and Evaluation.  It is an ad hoc group convened by the appropriate test center commander or when directed by the appropriate MAJCOM authority.  The  ALMAG  investigates  specific  types  of  in-flight  mishaps  to  determine  system  deficiencies and report results. 1.3.  Requirements for an ALMAG.  The requirement for convening an ALMAG is dependent on  the  circumstances  of  each  particular  in-flight  mishap  or  incident.    The  convening  authority will determine if an ALMAG is appropriate according to  Figure 1.1,  ALMAG  Decision  Tree, and based on the advice of the lead test wing. (T-1). Generally, an ALMAG investigation will be convened  when  a  safety  investigation  would  otherwise  be  required,  but  the  mishap  occurred within test range boundaries, no debris impacted outside of range boundaries, and no collateral damage or personal injury was involved. 1.3.1.  For  mishaps  involving  unmanned  Full  Scale  Aerial  Targets  (FSATs),  the  interim safety board will conduct a preliminary review of telemetry and/or control system data from the  Gulf  Range  Drone  Control  System  (GRDCS)  or  the  Drone  Formation  Control  System (DFCS).  If the preliminary review indicates the event was related to target specific systems or drone modifications, the mishap may be investigated according to this AFI.  See paragraph 2.4.2 of this AFI  for  additional requirements.   In  all other cases, the mishap is  investigated per AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports. 4 AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 Figure 1.1.  ALMAG Decision Tree.  AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 5 Chapter 2 ALMAG MEMBERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITIES 2.1.  ALMAG  Membership.  Each  ALMAG  is  composed  of  experts  chosen  by  the  ALMAG chairperson  to  conduct  each  specific  investigation.    Exact  ALMAG  membership  is  determined on  a  case-by-case  basis.    ALMAG  membership  ends  upon  completion  of  each  investigation. Each MAJCOM, via their respective wings/units, funds TDY of its assigned personnel who are ALMAG members or technical experts.  Contractors normally travel via their own funding. 2.2.  ALMAG  Convening  Authority.  The  lead  test  center  commander  will  convene  an ALMAG when required. (T-1).  The convening authority may be delegated down to the lead test wing  commander.    The  convening  authority  will  appoint  the  ALMAG  chairperson  in  writing within 24 hours after the mishap is discovered or verified. (T-1).  Notify MAJCOM/SE when the decision is made to convene an ALMAG. 2.3.  ALMAG  Chairperson.  The  chairperson  must  be  a  major  or  above,  or  the  civilian equivalent,  whose  selection  is  based  on  experience,  expertise,  maturity,  and  impartiality.    In certain  cases,  the  chairperson  should  be  chosen  from  an  outside  organization  to  ensure  a  more independent investigation is accomplished.  The ALMAG chairperson will: 2.3.1.  Nominate members from critical support agencies and functional areas to serve on the ALMAG. 2.3.2.  Add  technical  experts  and  supplemental  members  to  the  ALMAG  as  needed  for  the particular investigation. 2.3.3.  Advise  the  convening  authority  of  the  final  ALMAG  membership,  and  provide  an estimated time frame for completing the investigation. 2.3.4.  Convene and chair the ALMAG. 2.3.5.  Assume all responsibilities for successful conduct of the ALMAG. 2.3.6.  Arrange  for  facilities,  transportation,  communications,  equipment,  and  other  support for the investigation. 2.3.7.  Secure all test data and technical information for the investigation. 2.3.8.  Coordinate  through  the  FDE  point  of  contact  (POC)  in  obtaining  any  additional  or outside technical expertise. 2.3.9.  Submit reports and briefings as described in Chapter 3 of this AFI. 2.3.10.  Submit  an  extension  waiver  request  to  the  convening  authority,  and  provide  an information copy to the Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC), if sufficient data is not available to allow for the investigation and report to be completed as needed (i.e., within 90 days). 2.3.11.  Disband the  ALMAG  after  all  analysis  and  recommendations  for  further investigations  or  fixes,  if  any,  have  been  reported.    Convening  authority  will  concur  on  all analysis and recommendations prior to disbanding. (T-1). 2.4.  Primary  ALMAG  Members.  The following specialists will normally be present on each ALMAG convened: 6 AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 2.4.1.  Operations,  Analytical,  Engineering,  or  Maintenance  Specialists  .   The munition/full/sub-scale aerial target launch unit, MAJCOM, and the weapon system program manager  provide  government  representative(s)  who  are  operations,  analytical,  engineering, and maintenance expert(s) as needed by the ALMAG chairperson.  These personnel  should be drawn from system program offices and system item manager offices, test and evaluation organizations, analytical agencies, and operational organizations.  Other fields or disciplines may be selected for the ALMAG as needed. 2.4.2.  Safety  Specialist  .    A  qualified  flight  safety  officer  or  weapons  safety  non-commissioned  officer  or  civilian  equivalent.    The  safety  specialist  advises  the  ALMAG chairperson  on  safety  issues  and  guidelines  according  to  AFI  91-204  after  the  ALMAG  is convened,  and  will  advise  the  adjournment  of  the  ALMAG  if  the  incident  falls  under  the purview of the 91-series safety instructions. 2.4.3.  Appropriate  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC)  Specialists  .    Government specialists from AFMC are selected for the ALMAG as needed.  These specialists will: 2.4.3.1.  Provide the ALMAG with  technical  and historical  data about the system under investigation. 2.4.3.2.  Arrange  for  or  acquire  technical  data  or  laboratory  analysis  from  the  system contractor. 2.4.4.  Test  POC  .    The  test  center’s  POC  responsible  for  the  overall  management  of  the specific weapon system evaluation will: 2.4.4.1.  Coordinate  the  tasking  of  other  USAF  agencies,  functional  areas,  military services, or contractors for technical support, as needed, at the direction of the ALMAG chairperson. 2.4.4.2.  Ensure  all  relevant  test  and  instrumentation  data  is  made  available  to  the ALMAG. 2.4.4.3.  Advise the ALMAG about all FDE and test matters. 2.4.5.  MAJCOM  Representative. coordination required between the ALMAG and the MAJCOM headquarters.   The  MAJCOM  representative  will  provide  any 2.5.  Optional  ALMAG  Members  .    The  following  optional  experts  should  be  considered  for ALMAG participation as needed: 2.5.1.  Operations expert(s). 2.5.2.  Weapon or aircraft maintenance expert(s). 2.5.3.  Weapons or aircraft safety expert(s). 2.5.4.  Continental United States (CONUS) test range safety expert(s). 2.5.5.  Non-CONUS test range representative(s). 2.5.6.  Test instrumentation expert(s). 2.5.7.  Recovery specialist(s). 2.5.8.  Mission software expert(s). AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 7 2.5.9.  Mission planning expert(s). 2.5.10.  System  contractor  engineering  specialist(s)  for investigated. the  weapon  system  being 8 AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 Chapter 3 ALMAG PROCEDURES 3.1.  Convening the ALMA.  If an ALMAG is appropriate (see Paragraph 1.3), the convening authority appoints an ALMAG chairperson in writing.   If any conflicts of interest are identified, the convening authority should appoint an ALMAG chairperson from outside the test wing. 3.2.  Reporting  Requirements.  All  ALMAG  members  will  participate  in  preparing  required reports  and  messages  to  ensure  clarity  and  technical  accuracy.    All  reports  are  restricted  to agencies on a "need to know" basis.  The ALMAG chairperson will be the approval authority for all reports and messages which are submitted according to the following guidelines: 3.2.1.  Message  Reports.  The term  message in  this  instruction is  defined to  include e-mail or appropriate electronic transmittal medium, vice legacy Air Force messaging systems.  For standardization, see Attachment 2, Reporting Formats, for recommended ALMAG message report formats. 3.2.1.1.  Preliminary  Message.  A  preliminary  message  is  sent  to  the  addressees identified  in  Figure  A2.1  within  24  hours.    Format  preliminary  message  in  accordance with (IAW) A2.1, providing purely factual information only. 3.2.1.2.  Progress Report Message.  Provide periodic progress reports by message to the convening  authority  on  the  investigation's  status  as  additional  information  becomes available, or no later than 30 days following the incident.  Provide information copies to the test POC and addressees in Figure A2.2. 3.2.1.3.  Final  Report  Message.  A  final  report  message  is  sent  no  later  than  90  days after  the  convening  of  the  ALMAG,  unless  an  extension  has  been  requested  and approved. 3.2.2.  Final  Report  Briefing.  A  final  report  briefing  to  the  ALMAG  convening  authority summarizes the information in the final report message.  The convening authority may waive the briefing when appropriate. The CA has responsibility to archive the final report. 3.2.3.  Written  Formal  Report.  If  directed  by  the  convening  authority,  the  ALMAG chairperson will submit a written formal report documenting evidence, engineering analysis, and  findings  to  the  addresses  listed  in  Figure  A2.2.    For  the  formal  report  format,  use AFMAN 91-221, paragraphs 6.9 through  6.14 as a guide, but tailor the tabs as appropriate.  No  items  in  the  ALMAG  formal  report  are  privileged  safety  information,  but  the  types  of information  listed  in  AFMAN  91-221  privileged  information  tabs  should  be  considered  for inclusion.    As  a  minimum,  the  formal  report  covers  findings,  causes,  a  summary  of  the engineering analysis, and recommended corrective actions.  If sufficient data is not available to complete the investigation and formal report within 90 days, the ALMAG chairperson will request an extension from the convening authority.  CA has the responsibility to archive the final report. DEVIN L. CATE Director, Test and Evaluation AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 9 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011 AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 3 June 2014 AFI 16-1404, Air Force Information Security Program, 29 May 2015 AFI 33-324, Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 March 2013 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013 AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 February 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 21 August 2015 NOTE: The user of this instruction is responsible for verifying the currency of the cited documents. Prescribed Forms No forms are prescribed by this publication Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air Combat Command AFGSC—--Air Force Global Strike Command AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command ALMAG—Air-Launched Missile Analysis Group ANG—Air National Guard CAF—Combat Air Forces CONUS—Continental United States 10 AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 DoD—Department of Defense DPE—-Drone Peculiar Equipment FDE—Force Development Evaluation GPS—Global Positioning System HQ—Headquarters MAJCOM—Major Command MDS—Mission-Design-Series NAF—Numbered Air Force PACAF—Pacific Air Force POC—Point of Contact USAFE—United States Air Force Europe WSEP—Weapon System Evaluation Program Terms Combat  Air  Forces  (CAF)—A  group  of  MAJCOMs  comprised  of  ACC,  AFGSC,  ANG, AFRC, USAFE, and PACAF. Force  Development  Evaluation  (FDE)—A  type  of  operational  test  and  evaluation  (OT&E) performed  by  MAJCOM  Operational  Test  Organizations  (OTOs)  in  support  of  MAJCOM-managed  system  acquisition-related  decisions  prior  to  initial  fielding,  or  for  MAJCOM sustainment or upgrade activities. MAJCOM  Representative—A  member  of  the  ALMAG  appointed  by  the  MAJCOM  division chief  that  is  the  staff  point  of  contact  for  the  system  involved  in  the  mishap.    The  MAJCOM representative is normally the system’s MAJCOM program element monitor. Mishap—An  unplanned  occurrence,  or  series  of  occurrences,  that  results  in  damage  or  injury and  meets  Class  A,  B,  C,  or  D  mishap  reporting  criteria  according  to  AFI  91-204,  paragraph 1.8.  Damage or injury includes: damage to DOD property; occupational illness to DOD military or civilian personnel; injury to DOD military personnel on- or off-duty; injury to on-duty DOD civilian  personnel;  damage  to  public  or  private  property,  or  injury  or  illness  to  non-DOD personnel caused by Air Force operations. Test  Incident—An  unplanned  occurrence,  or  series  of  occurrences,  that  is  not  classified  as  a safety  mishap  (see  above),  but  results  in  damage  to  test  systems  or  loss  of  test  data  at  an unplanned time for unanticipated reasons resulting in the inability to meet test objectives.  AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 11 Attachment 2 REPORTING FORMATS A2.1.  Format for  Preliminary Message Reports.  Originators of preliminary message reports will use the report format in Figure A2.1 for reporting guided munition, missile, and unmanned full/sub-scale aerial target mishaps where DPE is suspected within 8 hours, but not later than 24 hours after the incident according to paragraph 3.2.1.1. (T-1). Figure A2.1.  Format for Preliminary Message Reports. NOTE: Ensure latest organizational e-mail addresses as populated in the Global Address List (GAL) are updated and used. FROM:  Originator. TO: Mandatory addressees include HQ AFSEC, HQ AFGSC/SE/A3T/A5B, HQ ACC/SE/A5/A3, HQ PACAF/SE, HQ AFMC/A3, HQ USAFE/SE, HQ ANG/XOSW, HQ AFRC/SE, and HQ ACC/A5T, 53WG/SE.  For unmanned full/sub-scale targets, add HQ ACC/AMIC.  Include appropriate addressees from AFMAN 91-221, Table 6.3. CLASSIFICATION:  Use the proper security markings prescribed by AFI 16-404 for classified messages. SUBJECT:  Report type, system type and mishap event date (e.g., Preliminary, ALMAG, AGM-86, 20121231) Special Markings, if applicable (e.g., FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY). NOTE: For classified messages, omit the quotation “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.” 1. Nomenclature and name, weapon carrier mission-design-series (MDS), serial number, building number and purpose, national stock number, part number, manufacturer’s name, as applicable. 2. Date (DD MMM YYYY), time (HHMM), and weather conditions (if pertinent) of mishap (e.g., 03 MAR 2016/1900/FOGGY, NIGHT). 3. Clear text name of base submitting report. 4. Location of the mishap.  If on a military installation, give the name of the installation, specific location on base, and general function of the location or facility.  If the event occurred on the range, use street and highway references as well as the distance and compass direction from the nearest US military installation.  GPS coordinates (DDD-MM.MM) may be used in place of street and highway references for remote locations. 5. Owning MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force (NAF), Center/Wing (wing-equivalent Groups), and Squadron/Unit. 6. NARRATIVE.  Give brief description of mishap.  Provide strictly abbreviated, factual information.  Do not include information implying cause or containing material gained through testimony from crewmembers or other witnesses.  Describe extent of damage (e.g., “MISSILE DESTROYED”).  Include mission information. 7. ADDITIONAL DETAILS.  Include an initial cost estimate, status of on-going recovery operations, hazard containment and security, and information on the level of media interest. 8. Interim cognizant official, telephone numbers (DSN and commercial), and e-mail address. A2.2.  Format  for  Progress  and  Final  Message  Reports.  Originators  of  Progress  and  Final message  reports  will  use  the  message  report    format  in  Figure  A2.2  for  reporting  guided 12 AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 munition,  missile,  and  unmanned  full/sub-scale  aerial  target  mishaps  where  DPE  is  suspected according to paragraphs 3.2.1.2 and  3.2.1.3. (T-1). Figure A2.2.  Format for Message Reports. FROM:  Originator. TO: Mandatory addressees include HQ AFSEC, HQ ACC/SE/A5/A3, HQ AFGSC/SE/A3T/A5B, HQ PACAF/SE, HQ AFMC/A3, HQ USAFE/SE, HQ ANG/XOSW, HQ AFRC/SE, and HQ ACC/A5T.  For unmanned full/sub-scale aerial targets, add HQ ACC/AMIC.  Include appropriate addressees from AFMAN 91-221, Table 6.3. CLASSIFICATION: Use the proper security markings prescribed by AFI 16-404 for classified messages. SUBJECT: Report type, system type and mishap event date (e.g., Preliminary, ALMAG, AGM-86, 20121231) Special Markings, if applicable (e.g., FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY). NOTE:  For classified messages, omit the quotation “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.” 1. LOCATION OF MISHAP: 1.1. Name of base or military property (such as Utah Test and Training Range) on which mishap occurred. 1.2. State and country of mishap. 1.3. Location of the mishap.  If on a military installation, give the name of the installation, specific location on base, and general function of the location or facility.  If the event occurred on the range, use street and highway references as well as the distance and compass direction from the nearest US military installation.  GPS coordinates (DDD-MM.MM) may be used in place of street and highway references for remote locations. 1.4. Date (DD MMM YYYY) of mishap (e.g., 3 MAR 2016). 1.5. Local time (HHMM) of mishap (e.g., 1900). 2.  Owning MAJCOM, NAF, Center/Wing (wing-equivalent Groups), and Squadron/Unit. 3. Environmental factors: 3.1. If weather was a factor, describe pertinent conditions.  Otherwise state, “WEATHER WAS NOT A FACTOR.” 3.2. Day or night. 3.3. If the mishap involved fire or explosion, describe pertinent details.  Otherwise state, “NO EXPLOSION OR FIRE.” 4.  Damage and cost estimates: 4.1. Mishap cost NONAF: Estimate of damage to non-Air Force property, including other DOD and non-DOD property. 4.2. Air Force cost damage: Cost of damage to Air Force property, including labor and material. 4.3. Total mishap cost (sum of costs in items 4.1. and 4.2.).   AFI99-151  12 MAY 2017 13 5. PROPERTY DATA. 5.X.1. Item name.  Give the following data on each piece of property (munition or other equipment) involved.  Number as 5.1.1 through 5.X.8. 5.X.1.1. Vehicle or equipment serial number. 5.X.1.2. Object or vehicle activity at time of mishap. 5.X.1.3. Was object destroyed (Y or N)? 5.X.1.4. Mission-design-series (MDS). 5.X.1.5 Mishap within 10 miles of base (Y or N)? 5.X.1.6. Major system failing. 5.X.1.7. FAILED PART INFORMATION.  Repeat entries 5.X.1.7.1 through 5.X.1.7.5 as required for all failed parts.  Number as 5.X.1.7.1 through 5.X.1.7.Y. 5.X.1.7.Y. Failed part description. 5.X.1.7.Y.1. Failed part number. 5.X.1.7.Y.2. Failed part manufacturer. 5.X.1.7.Y.3. Mishap event number from deficiency report. 5.X.1.7.Y.4. Lot number (if applicable). 6. NARRATIVE. Give a concise, chronological description of the facts and circumstances leading to the mishap.  For areas not factors in the mishap, give details in narrative not included elsewhere in the report.  Include enough information in final reports to show investigating officer reasoning in reaching findings and recommendations.  In all cases, continue the sequence through point of occurrence (or discovery) for all damage and/or until the end of the mishap.  For technical assistance on this item, contact HQ AFSEC/SEW, DSN 246-6059, commercial (505) 846-6059.  Specify in the narrative if an accident investigation was or was not convened and is being conducted. 7. FINDINGS AND CAUSES.  Repeat entries 7.1 through 7.X for the required number of findings and causes.  Findings may not address new information that was not previously discussed in the narrative.  Identify and document hazards that played a role in the mishap sequence.  Hazards are defined as “any real or potential condition that can cause injury or occupational illness to personnel; damage to or loss of a system, equipment or property; or damage to the environment.”  Determine whether individuals or management addressed these hazards during preparation and execution of the mishap sequence.  Assess the risk based upon the tables of probability and severity from AFI 91-204. 8. Preventive action(s) recommended or taken.  Repeat entries 8.1 through 8.X as necessary. 9. Cognizant official, unit, office symbol, telephone number (DSN and commercial) and e-mail address.  