BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-225 26 JANUARY 2015 Certified Current on, 30 April 2015 Safety AVIATION SAFETY PROGRAMS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   HQ AFSEC/SEF Supersedes:   AFI 90-1301, 1 Apr 2008 Certified by: AF/SE (Maj Gen Kurt F. Neubauer) Pages: 28 This  publication  implements  AFPD  90-13,  Military  Flight  Operations  Quality  Assurance,  and the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD)  Military  Flight  Operations  Quality  Assurance (MFOQA) Process Implementation Policy memo, and supports DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, and AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs. This instruction  applies  to  active  duty  units,  Air  National  Guard  (ANG),  and  Air  Force  Reserve Command (AFRC)  units.  Refer recommended  changes and questions  about  this publication to the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for Change  of  Publication;    route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional chain  of  command.    Ensure  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule in the Air  Force  Records Information  Management System (AFRIMS).  Requests  for waiver to the requirement to implement Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA) processes shall be generated and staffed as described in paragraph 1.4. of this instruction. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  must  be  completely  reviewed,  as  it  is  a re-write  of  AFI  90-1301,  Implementing Military  Flight  Operations  Quality  Assurance,  and  includes  guidance  for  multiple  proactive aviation safety programs.   2  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 Chapter 1—PURPOSE, PRINCIPLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES    1.1. Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  1.2. Aviation Safety Program Principles.   ......................................................................  1.3. Responsibilities.   .....................................................................................................  1.4.  Waivers.   .................................................................................................................  Chapter 2—MILITARY FLIGHT OPERATIONS QUALITY ASSURANCE (MFOQA)    2.1. Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  2.2.  MFOQA Implementation Overview.   .....................................................................  2.3. Responsibilities.   .....................................................................................................  Chapter 3—AVIATION SAFETY ACTION PROGRAM (ASAP)    3.1. General.   ..................................................................................................................  3.2. Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  3.3. ASAP Implementation Overview.   .........................................................................  3.4. Responsibilities.   .....................................................................................................  Chapter 4—LINE OPERATIONS SAFETY AUDIT (LOSA)    4.1. General.   ..................................................................................................................  4.2. Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  4.3. Scope.   .....................................................................................................................  4.4. LOSA Implementation Overview.   .........................................................................  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—MFOQA COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS   Attachment 3—WAIVER TEMPLATE       3 3 4 5 7 8 8 8 9 13 13 13 13 14 16 16 16 16 16 18 22 27 AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   3  Chapter 1 PURPOSE, PRINCIPLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES 1.1.  Purpose. 1.1.1.  This  Instruction  assigns  responsibilities  and  provides  instructions  for  AF  Aviation Safety  Programs  (ASP).    ASPs  are  data-driven  and  proactive  programs  such  as  Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA), Aviation Safety Action Programs (ASAP), and Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA). 1.1.1.1.  ASPs  enhance  aviation  safety,  operations,  training,  and  maintenance  through improved  utilization  of  recorded  aircraft  system  data,  flight  performance  data,  and  self-reported  data.    The  integrated  use  of  data  collected  through  ASPs  facilitates  hazard identification and risk mitigation to prevent mishaps. 1.1.1.2.  Analysis  of  recorded  data  identifies  and  quantifies  both  normal  and  hazardous flight  environments  and,  where  applicable,  enables  monitoring  of  control  measure effectiveness.  Analysis  of  self-reported  data  and  observed  inflight  behaviors  identifies threats,  errors,  and  hazards  that  could  engender  mishap  sequences,  and  assists  in  the identification of mitigation measures. 1.1.1.3.  ASP  processes  provide  identity  protected,  aggregate  data  to  identify  trends, human  factors  issues,  mishap  precursors,  and  the  effectiveness  of  corrective  actions.  Safety, operations, training and maintenance communities utilize the analysis results and corrective actions to improve flight operations and mission readiness. 1.1.2.  ASPs  support  the  development  and  implementation  of  aviation  Safety  Management Systems  (SMS)  as  directed  in  AFPD  91-2,  Safety  Programs.    Programs  such  as  MFOQA, ASAP, and LOSA enable the SMS pillar of ‘Safety Risk Management’ by providing tools to analyze  and  assess  aviation  safety  hazards,  develop  and  implement  measures  to  control  or mitigate the risk, and monitor mitigation efficacy. 1.1.3.  ASPs protect AF personnel from accidental death or injury through the utilization of safety  technologies.    Aviation  safety  data  monitoring  and  analysis  facilitates  the  risk management  process  as  described  in  DoDI  6055.1  by  identifying  hazards  specific  to  flight operations.    This  allows  commanders  to  use  the  analysis  results  to  assess  the  risk,  adjust policy and training to mitigate the risk, identify material requirements, or accept the risk as necessary for mission accomplishment. 1.1.4.  Airman  participation  in  and  use  of  the  data  derived  from  ASPs  builds  a  knowledge base for identification and mitigation of aviation hazards, with a resulting increase in safety and  reduction  in  mishaps.    This  affects  positive  change  in  the  Air  Force  by  engendering  a culture where personnel are willing to identify hazards and errors, not cover them up. 1.1.5.  See Chapter 2 for MFOQA, Chapter 3 for ASAP, and Chapter 4 for LOSA program descriptions. 1.1.6.  Throughout this document, the terms Lead MAJCOM and Using MAJCOM are used to  identify  advocacy  for  and  use  of  aircraft  weapon  systems,  as  described  in  AFPD  10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities For Weapon Systems.   4  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 1.2.  Aviation Safety Program Principles. 1.2.1.  MAJCOMs  shall  pursue  increased  aviation  mission  readiness,  improved  combat capability,  and  a  reduction  in  aviation  mishap  rates  through  the  implementation  of  data-driven proactive aviation safety programs for hazard identification and risk assessment. At a minimum the MAJCOMs shall employ MFOQA and ASAP programs. 1.2.1.1.  Lead  MAJCOMs  shall  include  a  data  collection  and  distribution  process  that supports  MFOQA  capability  as  a  standard  requirement  in  all  future  aircraft  acquisition, including  remotely  piloted  aircraft  (RPA).    RPAs  not  required  to  meet  airworthiness certification are exempt. 1.2.1.2.  For  existing  aircraft  (including  RPAs  requiring  air  worthiness  certification), Lead MAJCOMs shall program for data collection and distribution processes that support MFOQA analyses unless a cost-benefit  analysis demonstrates a need for exclusion (See Attachment  3).  Ensure aircraft information sources meet the requirements of AFH 63-1402, Aircraft Information Programs. 1.2.1.3.  MAJCOMs  shall  employ  ASAP  initiatives  as  a  means  for  identifying  and trending  threats,  errors,  and  hazards  present  in  aviation  operations  that  may  otherwise remain unknown. 1.2.1.4.  MAJCOMs should consider utilizing LOSA flight observations and analyses as another means of identifying and mitigating aviation hazards and negative trends through the collection and analysis of external threats and internal errors, and responses to these threats and errors. 1.2.2.  The  MAJCOMs  shall  establish  procedures  for  handling  the  data  collected  for  and releasing the analysis results generated by ASPs, based on the following: 1.2.2.1.  Data  collected  for  or  analyses  generated  from  ASPs  shall  not  be  used  for monitoring  personnel  performance  to  initiate  crew  qualification  downgrade  (e.g.,  Q2  or Q3) or decertification, or to take adverse personnel action, including  non-judicial (e.g., Letter of Counseling, Article 15, etc.), or judicial action, except as described in paragraph 1.2.2.2.  below.    Additional  training  programs  or  requirements  are  not  themselves considered punitive or adverse. 1.2.2.2.  If data collected for or analyses generated from ASPs indicates that the activity or event appears to involve an intentional disregard for safety, or that an intentional false statement has been made, the analysis or report no longer falls in the proactive aviation safety arena and the protections of paragraph 1.2.2.1. are not applicable.  In these cases, commanders may utilize MFOQA analyses and ASAP reports as necessary to investigate the event and are not precluded by the limitations of paragraph 1.2.2.1. 1.2.2.3.  Flight  data  files  used  for  MFOQA  analyses  are  factual  information  and  are  not covered  by  the  privileged  safety  information  procedures  of  AFI  91-204,  Safety Investigations and Reports. 1.2.2.3.1.  10 USC 2254a allows the exemption of information contained in flight data files and subsequent MFOQA analyses from release through Freedom of Information Act  (FOIA)  requests  upon  written  determination  from  the  Secretary  of  Defense  that the information is sensitive information concerning military aircraft, units or aircrew, AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   5  and  the  public  interest  consideration  in  the  disclosure  of  the  information  does  not outweigh  preventing  disclosure  of  the  information.    The  Secretary  of  Defense delegated  this  authority  to  the  Director  of  Administration  and  Management;  FOIA exemption requests are made on a case by case basis.  Contact AFSEC/JA for a copy of the designation memo and procedures for requesting exemption. 1.2.2.3.2.  MFOQA  analysis  reports  requested  by  an  AF  Safety  Investigation  Board for  specific  data  (i.e.,  over-Gs  by  tail  number  or  unstable  approaches  at  a  particular location) may give insight to the board’s deliberative process and may be covered by the  privileged  safety  information  procedures  of  AFI  91-204.    AFSEC/JA  will  make these determinations on a case by case basis. 1.2.2.4.  ASAP Reporting. 1.2.2.4.1.  ASAP  reports  are  not  covered  by  the  privileged  safety  information procedures of AFI 91-204.  DoD may be required to release ASAP reports pursuant to a court order. 1.2.2.4.2.  In  accordance  with  AFI  91-202,  The  US  Air  Force  Mishap  Prevention Program,  and  in  order  to  protect  the  integrity  of  the  ASAP  hazard  identification system,  AF  personnel  will  not  be  subject  to  coercion,  discrimination  or  reprisal  for participation. 1.2.2.5.  The LOSA process involves the collection of unidentified  observations and the development  of  a  consolidated  report  of  trends  and  conclusions  regarding  day-to-day operations.   This  report may  identify  hazards  or  trends  warranting  further  investigation.  When  a  Class  E  High  Accident  Potential  (HAP)  investigation  is  convened  to  address potential  hazards  or  trends  identified  through  LOSA  reports,  the  resultant  findings  and recommendations are considered privileged safety information and will be handled IAW AFI  91-204.    LOSA  observation  forms  and  annotated  data  are  not  safety  privileged information. 1.2.2.6.  Commanders  may  initiate  proactive  safety  investigations  of  hazardous  events that  did  not  include  damage  or  injury.    In  these  cases  MFOQA  analyses  accomplished specifically  for  an  investigation  that  will  be  categorized  as  a  Class  E  and  used  in  the deliberative  process  may  be  covered  by  the  privileged  safety  information  procedures  of AFI 91-204.  AFSEC/JA will make these determinations on a case by case basis. 1.3.  Responsibilities. 1.3.1.  This  section  establishes  overarching  responsibilities  and  authorities.    Additional responsibilities  associated  with  the  employment  of  specific  ASPs  are  found  in  their associated attachments to this document. 1.3.1.1.  The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) shall: 1.3.1.2.  Issue  safety  program  policy  and  oversee  ASP  process  development  throughout the Air Force. 1.3.1.3.  Support  ASP  collaboration with  other DoD  components  on  Joint  programs  and in Joint operating environments.   6  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 1.3.2.  The  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Air,  Space  and  Information  Operations,  Plans and Requirements (USAF A3/5), will: 1.3.2.1.  Ensure  Lead  MAJCOMs  establish  requirements  and  fund  materiel  sustainment of  aircraft  flight  data  collection  capabilities,  and  Lead  and  Using  MAJCOMs  enable access to the flight data for MFOQA analysis process development and implementation. 1.3.2.2.  Ensure MAJCOMs incorporate ASP hazard analysis results in risk management processes, and in aircrew training and operational procedures such as those found in the individual Mission Design Series (MDS) Vol III. 1.3.3.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will: 1.3.3.1.  Act as a focal point and liaison for aircraft data acquisition compliance with AFI 63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management,  and  AFH  63-1402  parameter requirements. 1.3.3.2.  Ensure  MFOQA  process  capabilities  are  incorporated  into  applicable  legacy aircraft  modifications  and  all  new  aircraft  procurements  unless  waived  by  the  Deputy Secretary of Defense. 1.3.4.  Headquarters  Air  Force  Safety  Center  (HQ  AFSEC)  will  provide  management  and oversight of ASP program objectives and analysis capabilities. HQ AFSEC will: 1.3.4.1.  Provide  MAJCOMs  with  required  policy  and  educational  resources  to  support ASP efforts. 1.3.4.2.  Fund  MFOQA  and  ASAP  reporting  and  analysis  software  management  and sustainment,  and  digital  flight  data  analysis  manpower  requirements.    Software capabilities  include  the  receiving,  storing,  processing,  analyzing,  and  protecting  of  the data collected for and analysis generated by MFOQA and ASAP processes and reports. 1.3.4.3.  Conduct  centralized,  AF-wide  ASP  analyses  across  multiple  platforms  and aviation  functional  areas,  while  facilitating  compatibility  and  cross-communication between MAJCOMs, sister services, foreign militaries, and civil aviation communities. 1.3.4.4.  Document and  disseminate ASP benefits, such  as  improved training efficiency, maintenance savings, and risk reduction. 1.3.5.  MAJCOMs  will  develop  strategies  to  employ  ASP  in  their  unique  operational  and training environments.  MAJCOMs will: 1.3.5.1.  Support  MFOQA  analysis  by  ensuring  AFH  63-1402  data  collection  and MFOQA process requirements are integrated into platforms under their responsibility (as assigned  by  AFPD  10-9).  Lead  MAJCOMs  advocate  for  resources  to  improve  data collection  capabilities  as  required  for  MFOQA  implementation,  and  submit  MFOQA waivers as described in AFPD 90-13, Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance, and Attachment 3. 1.3.5.2.  Document in a supplement, CONOPs, or separate instruction MAJCOM-specific structures  and  processes  that  support  the  ASP  concept  for  operations,  training, maintenance and safety customers. AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   7  1.3.5.3.  Document  an  organizational  structure  and  implement  processes  that  evaluate platform or command-wide trends, develop corrective measures to control adverse trends, and  evaluate  control  measure  effectiveness  over  time,  utilizing  the  expertise  of operations, training, maintenance, and safety personnel. 1.3.5.4.  Establish  protocols  for  gatekeeper  or  analyst  contact  with  aircrew,  report submitters, and maintenance personnel to gain additional insight into contributing factors to an event or hazard, or to report MFOQA-related maintenance write-ups. 1.3.5.5.  Incorporate ASP products in risk management processes, and in aircrew tactics, training and procedures such as those found in MDS Vol III. 1.4.  Waivers. 1.4.1.  The Lead MAJCOM, as identified in AFPD 10-9, shall submit a request for waiver of the MFOQA employment requirement if a MFOQA Cost-Benefit Analysis (Attachment  2) demonstrates  employment  is  not  fiscally  feasible.    Waiver  requests  shall  be  developed utilizing  the  cost-benefit  analysis  and  instructions  in  Attachment  2,  and  submitted  as described in Attachment 3.   8  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 MILITARY FLIGHT OPERATIONS QUALITY ASSURANCE (MFOQA) Chapter 2 2.1.  Purpose. 2.1.1.  MFOQA is the analysis and trending of aircraft system and flight performance data to enhance  combat  readiness  through  improvements  in  operations,  maintenance,  training,  and safety functions. 2.1.2.  MFOQA  analysis  requirements  apply  to  all  AF  aircraft,  manned  and  unmanned (exceptions noted in paragraph 1.2.1), including those of the ANG and AFRC.  MAJCOMs without  assigned  aircraft  are  not  required  to  implement  MFOQA  analysis  processes,  but when applicable shall support resolution of hazards identified through MFOQA. 2.1.3.  MFOQA provides tools for commanders to: establish a baseline for actual operations; identify,  mitigate,  and  monitor  operational  risks  while  detecting  precursors  to  aviation mishaps;  and  identify  operational  inefficiencies.    MFOQA  gives  capabilities  to  multiple levels and functional areas to improve and enhance mission-effectiveness through awareness of  trends,  continuous  knowledge  of  aircraft  systems  performance,  and  insight  into  the effectiveness of procedures, policy, and aircrew training on actual mission accomplishment. 2.1.4.  The MFOQA process is implemented through the regular analysis of recorded aircraft flight  data.    MFOQA  process  implementation  will  aid  in  the  reduction  of  aviation  mishap rates and in the conservation of resources. 2.2.  MFOQA Implementation Overview. 2.2.1.  MFOQA analysis results are dependent on a routine mechanism for collecting day-to-day  comprehensive  aircraft  data  for  aggregated  trending  analysis.    MFOQA  provides leadership with timely, actionable analyses to increase awareness of operational flight risks.  In addition, the MFOQA data collection process may enable operator training feedback and improve maintenance troubleshooting. 2.2.2.  The  AF  MFOQA  data  analysis  capability  is  managed  by  AFSEC  and  offers  a  web-based  system  to  collect,  store,  and  analyze  digital  flight  data  files.    Depending  on  the  data retrieval  process  established  by  the  MDS  program  office  and  the  Lead  MAJCOM,  the MFOQA  software  will  either  receive  data  files  uploaded  directly  to  the  web  server,  or  will automatically retrieve files from established AF data repositories. 2.2.3.  The  data  collection  and  analysis  mechanics  will  vary  between  MAJCOMs, organizations,  and  individual  fleets  due  to  technological  and  mission  differences.    The following  overarching  characteristics  should  be  incorporated  into  all  MFOQA  employment concepts: 2.2.3.1.  Record  aircraft  data.    Aircraft  Program  Managers  (PM)  and  Lead  MAJCOM requirements  personnel  collaborate  on  the  implementation  of  a  flight  data  collection process, following the direction of AFI 63-101/20-101, AFI 63-133, Aircraft Information Program,  and  AFH  63-1402.    Information  collected  for  MFOQA  may  be  utilized  by other data-centric programs, such as Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP), Engine Structural Integrity Program (ENSIP), and mishap investigation. AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   9  2.2.3.2.  Download the aircraft flight data. The data should be downloaded on a schedule that ensures timely data analysis and results in minimal loss of flight operations data due to  recorder  capacity  limitations.    Make  the  flight  data  files  available  to  the  MFOQA analysis process. 2.2.3.3.  Process and analyze data. 2.2.3.3.1.  Analysis results depend  on the quality of the flight data available and the desired depth of analysis. 2.2.3.3.2.  A  trained  MFOQA  analyst  will  be  provided  by  AFSEC  to  manage  the MFOQA    analysis  process  for  one  or  more  fleets.    The  analyst  will  conduct  initial data  validation,  provide  regular  reports  for  Lead  and  Using  MAJCOM  hazard identification and mitigations processes, and provide MFOQA trend analysis. 2.2.3.3.3.  MAJCOMs  will  develop  clear  protocols  for  gatekeepers  to  use  when contacting  aircrews  for  data  validation  purposes.    Protocols  for  Lead  MAJCOM gatekeeper contact with National Guard Bureau (NGB) aircrew will be established by NGB/CF or a designee as appropriate. 2.2.3.4.  Distribute  analysis  results.    Provide  routine  analysis  results  to  MAJCOM representatives from operations, training, maintenance, safety, and engineering functions for  review  of  MDS  trends.    MAJCOMs  establish  processes  for  further  distribution  of analyses. 2.2.3.5.  Assess risk, identify mitigation measures, and monitor effectiveness. 2.2.3.5.1.  Identify hazards using MFOQA and other data processes.  Assess the risk associated with the hazards, identify mitigation measures, and monitor effectiveness. 2.2.3.5.2.  Mitigation  measures include  any  means  necessary,  ranging  from modification of procedures, aircraft limitations, tactics, or training syllabi, to  simple aircrew, maintainer, or commander awareness efforts. 2.2.3.5.3.  Utilize further MFOQA analysis to monitor effectiveness and determine if further modifications or additional measures are necessary. 2.3.  Responsibilities. 2.3.1.  Program  Managers  (PM)  responsible  for  aircraft  development  will  perform  the  roles and  responsibilities  identified  in  AFI  63-101/20-101  and  AFH  63-1402,  supported  by  the Integrated Process Team (IPT) process, to collect flight data generated by the aircraft in order to enable the MFOQA data analysis process. 2.3.1.1.  Support the Lead MAJCOM in their effort to provide MFOQA capabilities and processes. 2.3.1.1.1.  For aircraft in development, ensure MFOQA data collection requirements, as  specified  in  and  funded  through  capabilities  documents  authorized  by  the  Lead MAJCOM,  are  met  through  compliance  with  AFI  63-101/20-101,  AFI  63-133,  and AFH  63-1402  so  that  the  aircraft  enter  Full-Rate  Production  meeting  MFOQA requirements.   10  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 2.3.1.1.2.  For aircraft undergoing modification, evaluate the potential to incorporate missing  data collection and distribution requirements that support the MFOQA data analysis process. 2.3.1.1.3.  Support  Lead  MAJCOM  development  of  the  MFOQA  Cost  Benefit Analysis (see Attachment 2) by providing updated engineering service life estimates, fly-away  cost  data,  and  estimated  cost  (if  any)  to  provide  flight  data  files  to  the MFOQA analysis process. 2.3.1.2.  Use  the  IPT  process  to  integrate  MFOQA  data  collection  and  analysis  with similar processes for the other system monitoring equipment, such as ASIP, as part of the overall  PM    effort  to  assure  the  Operational  Safety,  Suitability,  and  Effectiveness (OSS&E) of the aircraft. 2.3.1.3.  Provide assistance in assessing risks and determining mitigation measures when MFOQA  data  analyses  identify  new  hazards.    The  PM  identifies  materiel  changes  to hardware or software, or needed changes to technical data, that reduce the probability or severity of potential mishaps. 2.3.2.  AFSEC will: 2.3.2.1.  Provide management and oversight of MFOQA program objectives and analysis capabilities.    Provide  guidance  and  support  to  MAJCOMs  as  they  develop,  implement and sustain their MFOQA programs. 2.3.2.2.  Resource MFOQA analysis software and manpower requirements. 2.3.2.2.1.  Procure,  develop,  deploy  and  sustain  a  standardized  MFOQA  analysis system. 2.3.2.2.2.  Train,  deploy,  manage  and  fund  manpower  to  support  MFOQA  analysis requirements  at  the  Lead  MAJCOMs,  based  on  the  types  and  number  of  aircraft involved, and the capabilities of the analysis system. 2.3.2.3.  Support  the  MAJCOM  MFOQA  Cost-Benefit  Analysis  (CBA)  and  waiver request  staffing  process.    Review  waiver  requests  for  accuracy,  compliance,  and sufficient documentation. 2.3.2.4.  Provide  guidance  to  PMs  and  Lead  MAJCOM  requirements  personnel  on MFOQA  data  requirements,  including  required/desired  parameters,  data  collection,  data download, data distribution, data analysis and analysis results distribution. 2.3.2.5.  Conduct centralized, AF-wide MFOQA analyses across multiple platforms, and facilitate  MFOQA  compatibility  and  cross-communication  between  MAJCOMs,  Joint Service, foreign military, and civil aviation communities. 2.3.3.  Lead MAJCOMs will: 2.3.3.1.  For  aircraft  in  development,  ensure  MFOQA  data  collection  requirements,  in accordance with AFI 63-101/20-101, AFI 63-133, and AFH 63-1402 are specified in and funded through capabilities documents submitted to Program Offices so that the aircraft enter  Full-Rate  Production  meeting  MFOQA  requirements.    For  aircraft  undergoing modification, evaluate and act upon opportunities to incorporate missing data collection and distribution requirements that support the MFOQA data analysis process. AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   11  2.3.3.2.  Perform  CBAs  on  all  aircraft  in  accordance  with  the  methodology  outlined  in Attachment  2  to  determine  feasibility  of  MFOQA  process  implementation.    Provide flight data to the MFOQA analysis system for all feasible aircraft, or request a waiver for those  platforms  deemed  non-MFOQA  capable.    Lead  MAJCOM  waiver  requests /approvals will extend to all MAJCOMs utilizing the affected MDS. 2.3.3.3.  Staff  requests  for  waiver  to  the  MFOQA  requirement  through  AF/SE  to  the Deputy  Secretary  of  Defense  for  approval,  utilizing  the  CBA  and  waiver  templates  in Attachment 2 and Attachment 3. 2.3.3.4.  Collaborate  with  AFSEC to  determine  flight  data  analysis  manpower requirements,  based  on  MAJCOM-level,  centralized  analysis  for  each  MDS.    Provide local  sponsorship,  workspace,  and  logistical  support  for  HQ  AFSEC-provided  MFOQA analyst(s) and ASAP/MFOQA program managers (when applicable). 2.3.3.5.  Collaborate  with  PMs  to  establish  data  download,  distribution,  and  storage procedures  that  enable  MFOQA  data  analysis  processes  for  each  MDS  under  their responsibility,  coordinating  download  frequency  with  User  MAJCOMs.  Routinely download  recorded  data  on  a  schedule  that  provides  timely  data  analysis  and  results  in minimal loss of flight operations data due to recorder capacity limitations. 2.3.3.6.  Develop  employment  concepts  to  integrate  MFOQA  vision  and  objectives  as stated in AFPD 90-13, in their unique MAJCOM operational and training environments. 2.3.3.7.  Utilize aggregated flight data analysis for each MDS under their responsibility to identify risks common to various levels of the organization, as well as the MAJCOM in general. 2.3.3.8.  Establish protocols within the Lead MAJCOM and between the Lead and Using MAJCOMs to disseminate analysis results. 2.3.3.9.  Establish protocols within the Lead MAJCOM and between the Lead and Using MAJCOMs  for  gatekeeper  contact  with  aircrew  and  aircraft  analyst  contact  with MAJCOM maintenance personnel. 2.3.3.9.1.  Gatekeepers contact crewmembers solely to gain additional insight into an event  or  hazard,  in  order  to  understand  the  facts  of  the  event  in  question  and  to facilitate the hazard resolution process. 2.3.3.9.2.  MAJCOM  A4  will  identify  a  process  to  facilitate  the  reporting  and resolution of MFOQA-identified issues, such as to investigate ‘one-off’ type events, to  validate  and  resolve  data  anomalies,  or  to  report  aircraft  exceedances  to  ensure timely aircraft inspections are accomplished. 2.3.3.10.  Support, dissemination of MFOQA educational materials. facilitate,  and implement  MFOQA-related training  and the 2.3.3.11.  Document  and  disseminate  MFOQA  benefits,  such  as  improved  training efficiency, maintenance savings, and risk reduction. 2.3.3.12.      Conduct  regular  reviews  of  the  MFOQA  process  to  identify  and  implement program process improvements, soliciting input from Using MAJCOMs. 2.3.4.  Lead MAJCOMs except the Air Reserve Components (ARC) will:   12  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 2.3.4.1.  Document  the  organizational  structure  and  processes  supporting  MFOQA Implementation described in section 2.2., such as: 2.3.4.1.1.  Use of an analysis review team to identify and assess aviation hazards and platform-wide  trends,  develop  corrective  measures  to  control  adverse  trends,  make risk  decisions,  and  evaluate  control  measure  effectiveness  over  time.    The  team should  include  representatives  from  operations, training,  maintenance,  requirements, and safety. 2.3.4.1.2.  Identify organizations within Lead and Using MAJCOMs that will benefit from  MFOQA  analysis  results,  considering  user  needs  and  desires.    Develop  a feedback  process  and  tailor  analytical  products  to  ensure  user  needs  continue  to  be met as the program is implemented and matures. 2.3.4.1.3.  Collaborate with Using MAJCOMs to address hazards and trends specific to the Using MAJCOM area of responsibility. 2.3.5.  Using MAJCOMs will: 2.3.5.1.  Collaborate  with  the  Lead  MAJCOM  to  disseminate  analysis  results,  and  to address hazards and trends specific to the Using MAJCOM area of responsibility. 2.3.5.2.  Collaborate  with  Lead  MAJCOMs  to  identify  organizations  that  will  benefit from MFOQA analysis results, considering user needs and desires.  Develop a feedback process  and  tailor  analytical  products  to  ensure  user  needs  continue  to  be  met  as  the program is implemented and matures. AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   13  Chapter 3 AVIATION SAFETY ACTION PROGRAM (ASAP) 3.1.  General. 3.1.1.  ASAP  is  an  identity  protected,  self-reporting  system  designed  to  encourage  the voluntary reporting of issues that increase risk to flight operations. 3.2.  Purpose. 3.2.1.  ASAP  augments  existing  safety  reporting  programs  by  capturing  self-reported  issues and  events  not  normally  disclosed  by  traditional  hazard  reporting  and  mishap  prevention programs.    These  reports  identify  and  highlight  hazards,  threats,  and  errors  that  may otherwise remain unknown. 3.2.2.  ASAP  involves  leaders  and  airmen  in  the  aviation  mishap  reduction  process  by capturing  self-reported  issues  and  events,  analyzing  the  resulting  information  for  trends, educating  personnel,  and  developing  and  implementing  risk  reduction  or  mitigation strategies.    By  enhancing  situational  awareness,  improving  risk  management,  and  reducing risk, ASAP reporting can effectively protect people, conserve aircraft, maximize efficiency, and improve readiness. 3.3.  ASAP Implementation Overview. 3.3.1.  ASAP is designed for Airmen to report information and concepts critical to resolving mishap precursors, and the sharing of this information across AF aviation communities.  The information  is  used  to  reduce  mishaps  through  operational,  logistic,  maintenance,  training and  procedural  enhancements.    Do  not  submit  as  ASAP  reports  violations  of  the  UCMJ  or criminal statute. 3.3.2.  ASAP reports are submitted at http://www.safety-masap.com.  Reports are submitted by  mission  type  and  aircraft;  required  fields  include  aircraft  type,  wing,  and  narrative  of event.  Additional data fields may be filled at the discretion of the submitter. 3.3.3.  ASAP  report  scoreboards  are  reviewed  at  the  same  site,  again  by  mission  type  and aircraft,  and  include  the  narrative,  recommended  actions  if  submitted,  and  MAJCOM resolution.  If the submitter included names of personnel, the MAJCOM ASAP administrator will redact the names before the report is posted to the scoreboard. 3.3.4.  The MAJCOM ASAP Working Group (WG) / Event Review Committee (ERC) will research any operational, logistics, maintenance, training, or safety issues associated with the events detailed in the ASAP submission, utilizing additional sources of information such as MFOQA analyses, training or evaluation trends, policy and guidance review, etc. 3.3.5.  If names are included in the ASAP submission narrative, those names will be redacted by the MAJCOM ASAP administrator prior to making the report available for action.  If the ASAP  WG  /  ERC  determines  additional  information  would  benefit  the  hazard  resolution process,  names  in  the  narrative  or  submitted  with  the  report  may  be  made  available  to  the ASAP  gatekeeper.    Paragraph  1.2.2.1  and  paragraph  1.2.2.2  apply  to  all  personnel associated with the report, whether named in the report or not.   14  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 3.3.6.  ASAP report content is assumed to be true in the spirit of mishap prevention.  If the MAJCOM  WG/ERC  determines  the  report  contains  intentional  false  statements,  or  that  the reported  activity  or  event  indicates  an  intentional  disregard  for  safety,  the  report  will  be handled as described in paragraph 1.2.2.1 and 1.2.2.2 3.4.  Responsibilities. 3.4.1.  AFSEC will: 3.4.1.1.  Provide  management  and  oversight  of  ASAP  program  objectives  and  reporting capabilities.    Provide  guidance  and  support  to  MAJCOMs  as  they  develop,  implement and sustain their ASAP programs. 3.4.1.2.  Coordinate  ASAP  policy  among  Services  to  facilitate  sharing  of  best  practices and lessons learned. 3.4.1.3.  Resource  ASAP  reporting  and  analysis  software  that  allows  the  submitter  to enter all applicable details of the threat, error, or hazard in an identity-protected manner. 3.4.1.4.  Conduct  centralized,  AF-wide  ASAP  analyses  across  multiple  platforms,  and facilitate  ASAP  compatibility  and  cross-communication  between  MAJCOMs,  Joint Service, foreign military, and civil aviation communities. 3.4.2.  MAJCOM Staff will: 3.4.2.1.  Educate  units  on  ASAP  program  execution  and  how  to  utilize  ASAP  reporting capabilities. 3.4.2.2.  Establish  new  or  employ  existing  organizational  structures  to  act  as  an  ASAP Working  Group  (WG)  /  Event  Review  Committee  (ERC),  including  personnel  from operations, safety, training, maintenance, and others as determined by the MAJCOM. 3.4.2.3.  Identify hazards using ASAP and other data streams for each MDS community, as well as within the MAJCOM/NAF. 3.4.2.4.  Assess  the  risks  associated  with  identified  hazards  and  errors,  develop  and implement risk mitigation strategies to resolve the risk, and monitor effectiveness. 3.4.2.5.  Leverage  technology  via  a  variety  of  media  to  communicate  ASAP  report resolution, hazard mitigation, and lessons learned. 3.4.2.6.  Identify  “gatekeepers”  to  act  as  trusted  agents  when  additional  information  is needed to resolve a report. 3.4.3.  ASAP Working Group (WG) /Event Review Committee (ERC) will: 3.4.3.1.  Establish  a  process  to  accept,  validate,  process,  and  track  all  reports,  including the redaction of personally identifying information. 3.4.3.2.  Determine if the report should be reviewed by another agency.  For example, if an  ASAP  report  is  determined  to  be  a  Hazardous  Air  Traffic  Report  (HATR),  then  the report  should  be  seen  by  the  appropriate  safety  office.    In  these  instances,  attempt  to contact  the  submitter  to  file  the  appropriate  report.    Track  the  reports  until  action  is complete, and include in trending analysis. AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   15  3.4.3.3.  Exclude from the analysis and trending process those reports that are determined to contain intentional false statements or an intentional disregard for safety. 3.4.3.4.  Assign  a  “gatekeeper”,  if  necessary,  to  collect  additional  report  details  when additional insight into the event may be beneficial to the hazard resolution process. 3.4.3.5.  Conduct  thorough  root  cause  analysis  by  tapping  the  cross-functional  expertise of  the  ASAP  Working  Group/ERC.    Determine  factors  that  contributed  to  the  outcome and explain “why” the event occurred.  Note correctable events in the sequence to use as a starting point to develop corrective action/risk mitigation. 3.4.3.6.  Determine Recommend strategies and courses of action to mitigate or eliminate risk. the  deficiency/deficiencies that  need(s)  correction, if  any.  3.4.3.7.  Strengthen  culture  among  leaders  and  aviation  personnel  by  resolving  ASAP reports  in  a  manner  that  addresses  the  underlying  cause  of  the  event  or  error,  without laying blame on an individual or organization. 3.4.3.8.  Leverage  technology  via  a  variety  of  media  to  communicate  ASAP  report resolution. 3.4.4.  Commanders  will  emphasize  the  importance  of  identifying  hazardous  situations  and ASAP’s  ability  to  identify  safety  related  issues  and  provide  solutions  for  the  benefit  of  the aviation community, as a method of preventing future mishaps and strengthening a culture of safe, effective mission accomplishment. 3.4.5.  Individuals submitting an ASAP Report. 3.4.5.1.  Any  person  (e.g.,  pilot,  aircrew,  maintainer,  etc.)  aware  that  a  hazardous situation was encountered or an error occurred is encouraged to submit an ASAP report; however, this does not substitute for the submission of required safety reports. 3.4.5.2.  ASAP  report  examples  include:  any  unsafe  action,  event  or  condition encountered  during  any portion  of  a  flight  or  activity,  from  mission  planning  to  ground operations to mission execution to crew rest; observed hazards that may not have directly affected  the  particular  operation  but  may  affect  other  operations  or  activities;  hazards caused  by  defective  materials,  problems  with  Standard  Operating  Procedures,  aircraft systems / design concerns, etc;   personal errors or errors by other crewmembers which could  have  led  to  a  mishap  /  incident;  errors  committed  by  other  individuals  or organizations  that  adversely  affected  or  could  have  affected  the  mission,  including procedural errors; problems with hazardous situations not reported by other methods such as  safety  reports  and  Hazardous  Air  Traffic  Reports  (HATRs);  or  any  other  event considered worthy of reporting in the name of safety.   16  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 Chapter 4 LINE OPERATIONS SAFETY AUDIT (LOSA) 4.1.  General. 4.1.1.  The  Line  Operations  Safety  Audit  (LOSA)  is  an  observation  program  developed  to gather  safety-related  data  on  environmental  conditions,  operational  complexity,  and  human factors  issues  during  every  day  flying  operations.    MAJCOMs  may  choose  to  conduct LOSAs  within  their  Command  in  order  to  confidentially  collect  data  on  situational  factors and personnel behavior encountered in day-to-day flight operations. 4.2.  Purpose. 4.2.1.  LOSA  is  based  on  Threat  and  Error  Management  as  described  in  AFI  11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Program, which conceptualizes operational activity as a series of ongoing threats and errors that personnel must manage to maintain adequate safety margins. 4.2.2.  LOSA  contributes  to  proactive  safety  by  identifying  the  threats  personnel  face,  the common errors personnel experience, and the best practices employed by personnel to trap, mitigate, and manage those threats and errors.  The LOSA process provides a thorough and methodical  assessment  of  strengths  and  weaknesses  across  the  aviation  community.    With this  information,  MAJCOMs  make  improvements  to  training,  Technical  Orders,  Air  Force Instructions (AFI), and processes to make the environment safer and more efficient. 4.2.3.  LOSAs  are  not  checkrides  or  evaluations;  instead,  silent  observers  document operational threats and errors, and how they are mitigated or managed.  The LOSA provides a  snapshot  of  operational  performance  across  the  community  which  is  then  used  to  make proactive safety changes to prevent future accidents or incidents and improve efficiency. 4.2.4.  LOSAs  work  in  concert  with  MFOQA  and  ASAP  programs  to  fully  develop  a proactive  safety  culture  without  fear  of  retribution.    Aircrew  participation  and  trust  in  the process is essential for success. 4.3.  Scope. 4.3.1.  Because  a  LOSA  is  an  operations  audit,  it  encompasses  all  operations  areas  which impact  the  aircrew,  from  mission  acceptance  through  completion.    Many  factors  before takeoff and after landing affect a crew and their mission, and can be as detrimental to safety as those in the cockpit during flight.  Observations can be conducted on pilots, various MDSs and  other  crew  positions  as  determined  by  the  MAJCOM,  plus  potentially  maintenance, Airfield Operations, and various key personnel. 4.4.  LOSA Implementation Overview. 4.4.1.  LOSAs  may  be  conducted  by  a  commercial  vendor,  or  may  be  developed  and conducted in-house utilizing Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Advisory Circular 120-90, Line Operations Safety Audits, as a guide. 4.4.2.  Major steps in developing and implementing a LOSA: AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   17  4.4.2.1.  Create an observation form that captures multiple aspects of normal operations, including the operating environment and expected performance. 4.4.2.2.  Select and train the LOSA observer force for standardization and confidence in the  integrity  of  the  data  collection  process.    LOSA  observers  should  be  current  and qualified in the position they are observing. 4.4.2.3.  Observers gather threat and error data on a determined number of daily sorties or activities. 4.4.2.4.  Subject Matter Experts review and verify each observation to validate threat and error annotations prior to analysis. 4.4.2.5.  Develop  the  analysis  report,  detailing  the  prevalence  and  management  of different  threats  and  errors.    Errors  that  occur  more  frequently  than  others,  Standard Operating Procedures that are routinely ignored or modified, and actions that pose greater difficulty for adherence help identify targets for improvement. 4.4.2.6.  The  MAJCOM  may  form  a  Class  E  Safety  Investigation  team  to  transform  the LOSA analysis into actionable Findings and Recommendations. 4.4.2.7.  Brief  the  LOSA  analysis  and  /  or  Finding  and  Recommendations  to  leadership for acceptance and implementation. 4.4.2.8.  Communicate significant LOSA results, findings, and planned system changes to the operators.  KURT F. NEUBAUER Major General, USAF Chief of Safety   18  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 Oct 2010 DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 1998 DoDI 6055.07, Mishap Notification, Investigation, Reporting and Record Keeping, 6 Jun 2011 AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities For Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007 AFPD 90-13, Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance, 28 Mar, 2008 AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 Jul 2012 AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Program, 15 Oct 2012 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 Mar 2013  AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 Feb 1994 AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008 AFH 63-1402, Aircraft Information Program, 19 Mar 2001 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 29 Aug 2013 OSD Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA) Process Implementation Policy Memo, 11 Oct 2005  MIL STD 1530C (USAF), Aircraft Structural Integrity Program, 1 Nov 2005 FAA Advisory Circular 120-90, Line Operations Safety Audits, 27 Apr 2006 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Acronyms and Abbreviations AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Direction AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center AIP—Aircraft Information Program ANG—Air National Guard ARC—Air Reserve Components ASAP—Aviation Safety Action Program AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   19  ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program ASP—Aviation Safety Programs CBA—Cost Benefit Analysis ENSIP—Engine Structural Integrity Program ERC—Event Review Committee FAA—Federal Aviation Administration HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Report IPT—Integrated Process Team LCMC—Life Cycle Management Center LOSA—Line Operations Safety Audit MAJCOM—Major Command MDS—Mission Design Series MFOQA—Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance MIL STD—Military Standard NGB—National Guard Bureau OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness PM—Program Manager RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft SAF/AFCAA/FMCAB—Air  Force  Cost  Analysis  Agency,  Accounting  and  Financial Operations Directorate WG—Working Group Terms Aviation  Safety  Action  Program  (ASAP)—An  identity  protected,  self-reporting  system designed  to  encourage  the  voluntary  reporting  of  issues  that  increase  risk  to  flight  operations; these  reports  identify  and  highlight  hazards,  threats,  and  errors  that  may  otherwise  remain unknown.  ASAP is designed to operate in a non-punitive environment for the open reporting of information.  Reported data is used to reduce mishaps through operational, logistic, maintenance, training  and  procedural  enhancements.    By  providing  early  identification  of  needed  safety improvements, ASAP offers significant potential for mishap avoidance. ASAP  Information—Any  analysis  obtained  through  written  reports  of  unsafe  acts  and conditions,  consisting  primarily  of  qualitative  assessments  and  anecdotal  explanations,  as perceived and submitted by personnel associated with flight operations.   20  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 Gatekeeper—Occasionally ASP information, whether the data used for MFOQA analysis or the details  provided  in  an  ASAP  report,  will  be  insufficient  to  thoroughly  understand  the contributing  factors  to  an  event  or  hazard.    In  these  instances  contact  with  the  crew  or  report submitter  may  provide  additional  insight  and  be  beneficial  to  the  hazard  resolution  process.  MAJCOMs  select  as  gatekeepers  individuals  authorized  access  to  unit  and  aircrew  identifying information (if available) in order to gather the detail necessary in order to adequately assess and mitigate a hazard or error. Identity  Protected—Measures  taken  to  prevent  the  correlation  of  a  particular  MFOQA-identified event or ASAP report with a particular individual.  Flight information used in MFOQA analysis  does  not  contain  personnel  information  and  cannot  identify  an  individual  or  crew.  However,  MAJCOMs  may  correlate  the  information  contained  in  a  digital  flight  data  file  with aircrew flight records if it wishes to initiate a safety investigation of an event identified through MFOQA  analyses.    Additionally,  no  personal  information  is  required  for  ASAP  report submission,  and  information  that  could  identify  a  particular  sortie  or  personal  information voluntarily  provided  by  a  submitter  is  redacted  before  the  ASAP  report  is  made  available  for hazard analysis. Intentional Disregard for Safety—When a crew  makes a conscious decision to take actions or handle  the  aircraft  in  a  manner  not  consistent  with  directives  or  flight  manual  guidance  for purposes other than preservation of the aircraft or personnel. Line Operations  Safety Audit  (LOSA)—Use of highly trained observers to collect data about flight  crew  behavior  and  situational  factors  on  “normal”  flights.  By  monitoring  the  flight  from the  cockpit,  the  observer  can  learn  much  about  flight  crew  behavior  and  crews’  strategies  for managing threats, errors and undesirable states.  Analysis of the aggregated flight data identifies threats to aviation safety and the development of mitigation measures. Military  Flight  Operations  Quality  Assurance  (MFOQA)—The  proactive  analysis  and trending  of  aircraft  system  and  flight  performance  data  to  both  establish  a  baseline  for  normal  operations and to detect precursors to aviation mishaps, thereby allowing the identification and monitoring  of  mitigation  strategies.    MFOQA  allows  commanders  to  quantify  risk  inherent  in flight operations and to manage the risk at a level appropriate for mission accomplishment. MFOQA  Information—Any  analysis,  regardless  of  format  or  form,  created  from  recorded flight data for the specific purpose of supporting the MFOQA program. Privileged  Safety  Information—Information  that  is  reflective  of  a  deliberative  process  in  a safety  investigation  or  given  to  a  safety  investigator  pursuant  to  a  promise  of  confidentiality, which  the  safety  privilege  protects  from  being  released  outside  safety  channels  or  from  being used  for  any  purpose  except  mishap  prevention.    It  includes  products  such  as  draft  and  final findings,  evaluations,  opinions,  preliminary  discussions,  conclusions,  mishap  causes, recommendations,  analyses,  and  other  material  that  would  reveal  the  deliberations  of  safety investigators, including reviews and endorsements.  It also includes information given to a safety investigator  pursuant  to  a  promise  of  confidentiality  and  any  information  derived  from  that information or direct or indirect references to that information. Risk  Management—The  DoD’s  principle  structured  risk  reduction  process  to  assist  leaders  in identifying  and  controlling  safety  and  health  hazards  and  making  informed  decisions.    Risk management  includes  hazard  identification  and  assessment,  the  development  of  controls,  and AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   21  leadership at the appropriate level of authority making an informed decision to either control the hazard or accept the risk, as described in DoDI 6055.1. Safety—The  programs,  risk  management  activities,  and  organizational  and  cultural  values dedicated  to  preventing  injuries  and  accidental  loss  of  human  and  material  resources,  and  to protecting the environment from the damaging effects of DoD mishaps.    22  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 Attachment 2 MFOQA COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS  Note: The following Cost Benefit Analysis template is provided for stand-alone use by the MAJCOM and program offices, and thus does not follow the numbering formats used in the remainder of the AFI.  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA)  COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS _____________________ DATE    I have reviewed the Cost/Benefit Analysis for MFOQA process implementation on the <aircraft>.       __________________________________________ NAME    _________________________________________ NAME     _________________________________________ NAME    _________________________________________ NAME     Recommended signatories: Lead MAJCOM A3, A5 and/or A8, Lead MAJCOM SE, and AFSEC _____________________ DATE _____________________ DATE _____________________ DATE     AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   23    1.GENERAL INFORMATION  1.1.  Overview.  Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA) is the analysis and trending of aircraft performance and system data to identify adverse operational trends and system anomalies that may lead to an aviation mishap.  MFOQA is not a defined technology, but rather a concept that exploits aircraft data and intelligent analysis systems to find and quantify risks.  Some aircraft are capable of providing the needed data, whereas others may require some type of modification.  The complexity of the modification depends on the current capability and the desired level of analysis sophistication.  1.2.  Purpose.  The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) directed the establishment of the MFOQA process in all Department of Defense (DoD) aircraft, and the U.S. Air Force defines the requirement in AF Policy Directive 90-13, Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance.  The OSD direction also allows a waiver to the MFOQA process requirement for those platforms where a cost-benefit analysis demonstrates a need for exclusion.  The simple Cost/Benefit Analysis (CBA) outlined in this document provides Lead MAJCOMs a format for an initial assessment.  This CBA was not designed to generate a specific total cost savings; instead, it assigns a value to aircraft cost, remaining service life, mishap rate, fatality rate, and the cost to integrate the MFOQA process on a fleet.  The total points assessed are used to determine if a benefit from MFOQA implementation is likely to exist. This format may be used both when MFOQA implementation is not considered cost effective and to validate a decision to implement the MFOQA process.  The aircraft Lead MAJCOM shall submit requests for waivers to the MFOQA requirement through AF/SE for AF/CV approval.  1.3.  Exceptions.  Generation of a CBA is not required for those platforms whose recorded data is currently used to generate MFOQA analyses, or those in the process of fielding an analysis process endorsed by the Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC).  In addition, no CBA is required when guidance waives the requirement for equipment age or retirements (e.g., Public Law 105-56, Title VIII, Sec 8053).  1.4.  References.  The following references and statistical reports may be used in preparation of the MFOQA Cost/Benefit Analysis:  a. Air Force Safety Center Aircraft Mishap Statistics Charts b. AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 Feb 1994 c. AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008   24  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 d. DODI 6055.07, Mishap Investigation, Reporting, and Recordkeeping, 6 Jun 2011 e. Aircraft Flyaway Cost Table, US Air Force Cost Analysis Agency  2.  METHODOLOGY  2.1.  This CBA format defines five evaluation criteria and establishes value ranges for each; points are then assigned to each value range.  The total point value determines if the aircraft is a viable MFOQA process candidate.  2.2.  Criteria.  2.3.  Aircraft Cost.  Consult with the Air Force Cost Analysis Agency, Accounting and Financial Operations Directorate (SAF/AFCAA/FMCAB) to determine average unit Flyaway Cost.  The unit flyaway cost provided by AFCAA represents the original purchase price of the aircraft.  It does not include costs associated with any modifications that were performed subsequent to initial purchase and does not account for depreciation of the aircraft cost over time.  a. Average Unit Flyaway Cost. The average unit flyaway cost (equivalent to rollaway and sail away) relates to the production of a usable end-item of military hardware.  b. The following items are included in unit flyaway cost under Appropriation 3010 (Aircraft Procurement): 1. Airframe 2. Propulsion 3. Electronics 4. Avionics 5. Engineering Change Orders 6. Government Furnished Equipment 7. First destination transportation (unless a separate line item) 8. System Engineering and Program Management if funded by 3010 9. Warranties 10. Recurring costs 11. Nonrecurring costs 12. Advance buy costs  c. Unit flyaway cost does not include: 1. Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) expenditures (Appropriation 3600) 2. Weapons and armaments (except if part of the airframe, e.g., the 30MM GAU- 81A gun on the A-10) 3. Peculiar ground support equipment 4. Peculiar test equipment 5. Technical data 6. Initial and replenishment spares 7. Modifications and upgrades AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   25    Example:  A-10A Flyaway Cost - $13.0M  2.1.2.  Service Life In Years.  Service Life in years will be determined by the Lead MAJCOM and the platform program office, consulting MIL STD 1530C (USAF), Aircraft Structural Integrity Program, service life guidelines, and the AF Technical Airworthiness Authority in AFLCMC/ENEZ.  2.1.3.  Mishap Rate.  Class A mishaps are those that resulted in loss of life, permanent total disability, or over $2,000,000 in damage.  Utilize the statistical data available in the Flight Statistics section of the AF Safety Center webpage to determine the Class A Mishap Rate per 100,000 hours for the most recent ten fiscal years available. (http://www.afsec.af.mil/organizations/aviation/aircraftstatistics/index.asp )  Example:    A-10 Mishap Rate FY98-07 14 Class A Mishaps Flight Rate = Flight Hours/100K Hours = 1,161,725/100,000 = 11.6 Mishap Rate = Mishaps/Flight Rate = 14/11.6 = 1.21  2.1.4.  Fatality Rate.  Utilize the statistical data available in the Flight Statistics sections of the Air Force Safety Center webpage to determine the total Fatality Rate per 100,000 hours for the most recent ten fiscal years available. (http://www.afsec.af.mil/organizations/aviation/aircraftstatistics/index.asp )  Example:    A-10 Fatality Rate FY98-07 5 Fatalities  Flight Rate = Flight Hours/100K Hours = 1,161,725/100,000 = 11.6 Fatality Rate = Fatalities/Flight Rate = 5/11.6 = 0.43  2.1.5.  Integration Cost.  Integration cost will be determined by the Lead MAJCOM requirements office in collaboration with system program offices to determine possible aircraft modifications and associated costs which would provide MFOQA parameters at the desired quality and quantity.  The Aircraft   26  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 Information Management Plan, generated to support the Aircraft Information Program, is a good reference for documenting integration costs.  2.2.  Criterion Valuation.  Use the Criterion Value Table below to assign a point value (left column) for each criterion.  If the point total for all criteria is 12 or below, the cost likely outweighs the benefit, MFOQA implementation is not required, and the MAJCOM may request a waiver from OSD.  If the point total is 20 or above, implement the MFOQA process as the benefit likely outweighs the cost.  If the point total falls within the 13-19 range, the Lead MAJCOM must consider additional factors before making the final implementation decision.  Factors such as a recent change to the aircraft mission, Class B, C and E mishap rates, command or USAF corporate interest and/or the ease of process implementation may indicate a benefit from MFOQA can be derived. Table A2.1.  Criterion Value Table. Criterion Value 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Aircraft Cost (M$) 0 - 25 25 - 50 50 - 75 75 - 100 100 - 125 125 - 150 150 - 175 175 - 200 225 - 250 250 - Above  45 - above Service Life (years) 1 - 5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45  Fatality Rate  Mishap Rate 0 - 0.25 0.26 - 0.50 0.51 - 0.75 0.76 - 1.00 1.01 - 1.25 1.26 - 1.50 1.51 - 1.75 1.76 - 2.00 2.01 - 2.25 2.26 - Above 0-.50 .51 - 1.00 1.01 - 1.50 1.51 - 2.00 2.01 - 2.50 2.51 - 3.00 3.01 - 3.50 3.51 - 4.00 4.01 - 4.50 4.51 - Above Integration Cost (M$) 36 - Above 32 - 36 28 - 32 24 - 28 20 - 24 16 - 20 12 - 16 8 - 12 4 - 8 0 - 4 AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015   27  Attachment 3 WAIVER TEMPLATE Note:  The following Cost Benefit Analysis template is provided for stand-alone use by the MAJCOM and program offices, and thus does not follow the numbering formats used in the remainder of the AFI.  WAIVER TEMPLATE  Request for Waiver to Requirements of AFPD 90-13, Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance  MEMORANDUM FOR: AF/SE AF/CV DepSecDef In Turn  FROM:  <Lead MAJCOM>  SUBJECT:  Waiver to Requirements of AFPD 90-13  AFPD 90-13 requires the incorporation of MFOQA process requirements on all legacy and new weapon system procurements unless waived by the Deputy Secretary of Defense.  MFOQA is the analysis and trending of aircraft system and flight performance data to enhance combat readiness through improvements in operations, maintenance, training and safety functions.  <Lead MAJCOM> utilized the following MFOQA Cost/Benefit Analysis and determined MFOQA process implementation is not technically or fiscally feasible on the <subject aircraft>.  COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS  Methodology - The MFOQA Cost/Benefit Analysis defines five evaluation criteria.  Value ranges for each criterion are outlined in the Criterion Value Table below (left column), with points assigned to each value range.  If the point total for all criteria is 12 or below, the cost likely outweighs the benefit.  If the point total is between 13 and 19 the benefit may outweigh the cost and further research is needed.  If the total is over 19 a benefit can be derived from the implementation of the MFOQA process.  Criteria: Aircraft Cost – Utilizing the established Air Force cost inflation methodology, the <aircraft> value in <previous calendar year> is approximately <dollar amount>.  Service Life – As determined by the <aircraft> program office, the <aircraft> has approximately <years> of its service life remaining.    28  AFI91-225  26 JANUARY 2015 Mishap Rate – Utilizing the statistics available in the Flight Statistics section of the AF Safety Center webpage, the fatality rate per 100,000 flight hours for the <aircraft> over the last ten years is <rate>.  Fatality Rate – Utilizing the statistics available in the Flight Statistics section of the AF Safety Center webpage, the Class A Mishap rate per 100,000 flight hours for the <aircraft> over the last ten years is <rate>.  Integration Cost/Effort – Working with MAJCOM requirements personnel, the <aircraft > program office, and referencing the Aircraft Information Management Plan, <outline potential modifications and costs which would enable the MFOQA process.> Table A3.1.  Criterion Value Table. 0-.50 .51 - 1.00 1.01 - 1.50 1.51 - 2.00 2.01 - 2.50 2.51 - 3.00 3.01 - 3.50 3.51 - 4.00 4.01 - 4.50 4.51 - Above Aircraft Cost (M$) 0 - 25 25 - 50 50 - 75 75 - 100 100 - 125 125 - 150 150 - 175 175 - 200 225 - 250 250 - Above  45 - above Service Life (years) 1 - 5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 Integration Cost (M$) 36 - Above 32 - 36 28 - 32 24 - 28 20 - 24 16 - 20 12 - 16 8 - 12 4 - 8 0 - 4 Fatality Rate  Mishap Rate 0 - 0.25 0.26 - 0.50 0.51 - 0.75 0.76 - 1.00 1.01 - 1.25 1.26 - 1.50 1.51 - 1.75 1.76 - 2.00 2.01 - 2.25 2.26 - Above Criterion Value 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  Valuation  –  Utilizing  the  valuation  criteria,  the  <aircraft>  scored  <points>,  and  the implementation of the MFOQA process will likely not provide a cost benefit.  <State additional factors for consideration if the criteria total fell between 13 and 20.>  RECOMMENDATION:  Request a waiver to the MFOQA implementation requirements of AFPD 90-13 for the <aircraft>.        CC: AF/PEO AC      NAME Lead MAJCOM/CV       