BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-106 23 MARCH 2017 Test and Evaluation JOINT TEST AND EVALUATION PROGRAM     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/TEP  Supersedes:  AFI99-106, 26 August 2009  Certified by: AF/TE  (Devin L. Cate) Pages: 16 This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 99-1, Test and Evaluation,  Headquarters  Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (HAF  MD)  1-52,  Director  of  Test  and Evaluation,  and  Department  of  Defense  Instruction,  DoDI  5010.41,  Joint  Test  and  Evaluation (JT&E)  Program.    It  provides  responsibilities,  guidance,  and  procedures  for  Air  Force participation  and  support  of  the  JT&E  Program  directed  by  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of Defense (OSD).  It applies to all Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National  Guard  (ANG)  units.    To  ensure  full  understanding  of  the  JT&E  Program  process  and terminology,  consult  the  OSD  JT&E  web  site  at  https://www.jte.osd.mil  for  relevant documentation  including  the  JT&E  Program  Handbook.    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions about this publication to Air Force Joint Test Program Office (AFJO), Bldg 585, 5930 Devlin Drive, Nellis AFB, NV 89191, (702) 652-2599; and to Headquarters, Air Force Test and Evaluation  Policy,  Programs,  and  Resources  Division  (HQ  USAF/TEP),  1530  Air  Force Pentagon,  Washington  DC  20330-1530,  (703)  695-0900  using the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“Tier-0, Tier-1, Tier-2, Tier-3”) number following the compliance statement IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.   See AFI 33-360, Table 1.1 for  a description of the  authorities associated with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit  requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the 2 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  is  substantially  revised  and  should  be  completely  reviewed.    It updates Air Force  structure  and  responsibilities  to  correspond  to  the  Department  of  Defense  (DOD) restructure  of  the  JT&E  Program.  Clarifies  responsibilities  of  affiliate  organizations  with  Air Force  JT&E  program  interest  including  test  nomination  process,  resource  requests  and operational endorsements.  Implements a Collaborative Joint Test (CJT) option that supplements the Air Force JT&E program. 1.  JT&E Program Overview. 1.1.  The Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program involves two or more military Services, Combatant  Commands  (CCMD),  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  (JCS),  and  other  DoD  agencies  to solve  joint  problems  with  non-materiel  solutions.  The  OSD  Director,  Operational  Test  and Evaluation (DOT&E) plans, programs, budgets, and funds costs unique to the JT&E Program IAW DoDI 5010.41.  The purpose of the JT&E Program is to: 1.1.1.  Assess  Service  system  interoperability  in  joint  operations  and  explore  potential solutions to identified problems. 1.1.2.  Evaluate joint technical and operational concepts and recommend improvements. 1.1.3.  Validate testing methodologies that have joint application. 1.1.4.  Improve modeling and simulation (M&S) validity with field exercise data. 1.1.5.  Increase  joint  mission  capability  using  quantitative  and  qualitative  data  for analysis. 1.1.6.  Provide feedback to the acquisition and joint operations communities. 1.1.7.  Improve joint and multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs). 1.2.  Air Force JT&E program is implemented by the following organizations: 1.2.1.  Directorate  of  Air  Force  Test  and  Evaluation  (AF/TE),  on  behalf  of  CSAF,  has management  responsibility  by  establishing  policy,  instructions,  and  guidance  on  Air Force participation in the JT&E Program. 1.2.2.  United States Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC) through Air Force Joint Test Program Office (AFJO) has execution responsibility for Air Force participation in JT&E Program. 1.2.3.  AFJO generates, develops and supports AF JT&E program activities.  AFJO also serves as the Operational Test Agency (OTA) for the Air Force JT&E program. 1.3.  Test Overview.  The AF JT&E program involves three separate types of tests.  All three types of tests are administered through the Air Force Joint Test Program Office (AFJO). 1.3.1.  Joint  Test  (JT).  JTs  are  aimed  at  resolving  complex  issues  and/or  problems encountered in the joint environment, with the primary intent to improve joint operations primarily with (but not limited to) improved joint and multi-Service TTPs. The JT, IAW AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 3 the JT&E Handbook, is targeted for to two  years duration and a $6M budget funded by DOT&E.  JTs are preceded by a six month Joint Feasibility Study (JFS).  The JT is led by an  O-6  or  GS-15  Joint  Test  Director  (JTD).    Both  JFSs’  and  JTs’  are  chartered  semi-annually,  typically  in  Feb  and  August  by  DOT&E  under  the  authority  cited  in  DoDI 5010.41,  Joint  Test  and  Evaluation  (JT&E)  Program.  Procedures  for  developing  a  test proposal into a formal JT nomination are further described in paragraph 3.0. 1.3.2.  Quick  Reaction  Test  (QRT).  QRTs  are  aimed  at  resolving  specific  Warfighter issues encountered during current joint operations, operational testing or rapid capability fielding, and typically address interoperability problems or inadequate TTPs.  The QRT, IAW JT&E Handbook, is targeted for one year in duration and a $1M budget funded by DOT&E. The QRT is led by an O-5 or GS-14 JTD.  QRTs are directed three times per year,  typically  in  February,  June  and  October  by  DOT&E  in  accordance  with  DoDI 5010.41.   Procedures for developing  a test proposal  into a formal QRT nomination are further described in this AFI paragraph 4.0. 1.3.2.1.  An Extremely Urgent QRTs (EU-QRT)  .  EU-QRTs are a subcategory of the  QRT  and  are  directed  through  a  shorter  DOT&E  approval  process  to  resolve  an immediate need.  Consequently, EU-QRTs are conducted on a 6 month timeline. EU-QRT nominations also have test location restrictions. 1.3.3.  Collaborative Joint Test (CJT).  CJTs supplement the AF JT&E program.  CJTs are executed and funded by the participants and governed by Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with oversight from AFJO to ensure the necessary test rigor in the solution.  CJTs are  aimed  at  developing  and  validating  specific  operational  solutions  that  improve  Air Force  planning  and  coordination,  operational  compatibility,  and  information  exchange with  the  other  armed  Services  and  task  forces  in  the  joint  force  environment.    CJT nominations  are  vetted  and  approved  quarterly  (or  as  needed)  by  the  CJT  Assessment Board (CTAB).  Procedures for developing a test proposal into a formal CJT nomination are further described in this AFI paragraph 5.0. 2.  Roles  and  Responsibilities.  This  section  identifies  the  core  participants  of  the  AF  JT&E Program. 2.1.  The Air Force Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE).  AF/TE has been delegated the  authority  relating  to  the  JT&E  Program  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  IAW Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-52 Director of Test and Evaluation. 2.1.1.  Establishes  policy,  instruction,  and  guidance  on  Air  Force  participation  in  the DOT&E JT&E Program.  (T-1). 2.1.2.  Is  the  primary  Air  Force  voting  member  of  the  JT&E  Senior  Advisory  Council (SAC) and engages in a collaborative process between AF/TE and USAFWC to establish a single consolidated AF vote.  This authority may be delegated to an alternate. 2.1.3.  Prioritize QRT nominations being submitted to DOT&E based on AF interest and potential  joint  benefit.    Engages  in  a  collaborative  process  with  the  USAFWC  on  QRT nominations. 2.1.4.  Is  an  Air  Force  voting  member  of  the  JT&E  Executive  Steering  Group  (ESG). This authority may be delegated to an alternate. 4 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 2.1.5.  Establish and maintain MOAs with the USAFWC Commander (USAFWC/CC) as necessary for support of the AF JT&E Program. 2.2.  Policy,  Programs,  &  Resources  Division,  Directorate  of  Test  and  Evaluation (AF/TEP): 2.2.1.  Advise AF/TE on policy, instruction, and guidance for Air Force participation  in the JT&E Program. 2.2.2.  The primary  AF/TE representative to  the DOT&E Planning Committee (PC) and QRT Working Group (QRTWG) and Technical Advisory Board (TAB). 2.2.3.  Co-chairs with AFJO, the as required Collaborative Joint Test Assessment Board (CTAB). 2.2.4.  Advocate funding for the AF JT&E Program budget. 2.3.  Headquarters Air Force Directorates (AF/A3/5/7/8/9): 2.3.1.  Advise AF/TE as necessary on AF operational capability improvements within the scope of the JT&E program in response to JT and QRT call for nominations. 2.4.  Headquarters Air Combat Command, Human Resources (ACC/A1): 2.4.1.  Assists  AFJO  in  identifying  manpower  resources  and  preparing  manpower requests. 2.4.2.  Approves or disapproves manpower change requests forwarded by AFJO. 2.5.  Commander, United States Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC/CC): 2.5.1.  Implements  and  manages  AF/TE  guidance  and  instructions  for  the  AF  JT&E program.  (T-1).  2.5.2.  Advocate and promote the AF JT&E Program. 2.5.3.  Serves as an Air Force alternate voting member to the JT&E SAC.  Engages in a collaborative process with AF/TE to establish a single consolidated AF vote. 2.5.4.  Prioritize QRT nominations being submitted to DOT&E based on AF interest and potential  joint  benefit.    Engages  in  a  collaborative  process  with  AF/TE  to  discuss  QRT nominations. 2.5.5.  Serves as an Air Force voting member of the JT&E ESG. 2.5.6.  Provide  facilities  and  Base  Operating  Support  (BOS)  as  needed  for  AFJO  and AFJO-sponsored  JT&E  projects  as  defined  by  AFI  25-201,  Support  Agreements Procedures. 2.6.  Air  Force  Joint  Test  Program  Office  (AFJO).  The  AFJO  mission  is  to  generate, develop,  and  support  JT&E  activities  that  enhance  Air  Force  capabilities  and  mission effectiveness in joint operations.  AFJO serves as the AF Operational Test Agency (OTA) in support of the DoD JT&E Program.  AFJO is located at Nellis AFB, NV, and assigned to the USAFWC, to maintain a warfighter focus and test support capability.  (T-1). 2.6.1.  Program Administration: 2.6.1.1.  Execute the AF JT&E Program under the oversight of USAFWC.  (T-1). AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 5 2.6.1.2.  Advise  AF/TEP  on  policies  and  issues  of  Air  Force  interest  for  the  JT&E Program. 2.6.1.3.  Serves as liaison to facilitate collaboration between USAFWC and AF/TE to ensure a cohesive AF position. 2.6.1.4.  Attend  QRTWG,  PC,  TAB,  and  SAC  meetings  to  represent  Air  Force interests. 2.6.1.5.  Support  Air  Combat  Command  (ACC)  program  objective  memorandum (POM) process and develops the AFJO Operations and Maintenance (O&M) budget within Program Element (PE) 28015F. 2.6.1.6.  Inform  AF/TEP  about  JT&E  activity  and  progress,  significant  actions,  and potential problems. 2.6.1.7.  Review  as  necessary  JT&E  documents. recommendations to the JT&E Joint Program Office (JPO).   Provide  comments  and 2.6.1.8.  Provide  recommendations  to  DOT&E  for  the  JT&E  Lessons  Learned database. 2.6.1.9.  Establish  working  relationships  within  AF,  other  Services,  CCMDs  and DOD test organizations and advocate and promote the JT&E Program. 2.6.1.10.  Serves as Co-Chair with AF/TE to convene the CTAB as needed. 2.6.1.11.  AFJO serves as the liaison between AF/TE and the USAFWC on the JT&E program. 2.6.2.  Project Generation: 2.6.2.1.  Provide  briefings  that  describe  the  JT&E  process,  and  the  role  of  AFJO,  to organizations, seminars, and conferences.  (T-1). 2.6.2.1.1.  AFJO  conducts  outreach  to  CCMDs,  Joint  Task  Forces,  DOD Agencies,  and  other  intragovernmental  entities  to  generate  test  concepts  from verified operational needs. Targeted test development visits are executed when a strong concept is being developed into a nomination. 2.6.2.1.2.  AFJO  vets  all  test  nominations  through  the  USAFWC  and  AF/TE, providing warfighter input and representing all Air Force MAJCOMS. 2.6.2.2.  Produce  and  distribute  a  newsletter  on  AF  participation  in  the  JT&E Program. 2.6.2.3.  Provide consultation on the feasibility of a specific test concept. 2.6.3.  Project Development: 2.6.3.1.  AFJO  conducts  outreach  visits,  utilizing  travel  funds  sourced  from  JPO,  to conduct  high-level  coordination  and/or  test  socialization  with  any  agency  or  entity that would either sponsor or endorse test nominations.  (T-1). 2.6.3.2.  Provide submitting nominations.  (T-2). training  materials, templates,  and  samples to  organizations 6 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 2.6.3.3.  Review nominations and provide timely comments and recommendations to the nominating organization. 2.6.3.4.  Assist  organizations  in  the  preparation  of  nominations  and  in  identifying potential sponsorships and endorsements. 2.6.4.  Project Support to AF-sponsored Projects: 2.6.4.1.  AFJO is  designated the Operational  Test  Agency to  administer and execute tests within the AF JT&E Program, including JTs, JFSs, QRTs, and CJTs.  (T-1). 2.6.4.2.  May provide an O-6/GS-15 Joint Test Director (JTD), O-5/GS-14 Feasibility Study  Director  (FSD)  to  lead  JTs  and  JFS.    AFJO  may  also  provide  the  QRT  Test Director (TD) or Deputy TD. 2.6.4.3.  Liaise with the sponsor in obtaining SME support. 2.6.4.4.  Assist JTDs,  FSDs,  or  QRT  TDs  in  resource  matters,  including  preparation of  Cost  Resource  Estimates  (CREs),  contract  documents  and  test  resource  plans (TRPs)  as  required.    This  includes  funding  required  SME  support  (Gov’t  or Contractor) for test execution activities within the OSD funding guidelines.  (T-1). 2.6.4.5.  Prepares  and  coordinate  Memorandums  of  Agreement  (MOAs)  and  Inter-Service Support Agreements (ISSAs) as required.  (T-1). 2.6.5.  Project Support to non-AF sponsored JT&E Projects: 2.6.5.1.  Advise JTs, JFSs and QRTs on Air Force capabilities, doctrine, and TTPs. 2.7.  Nominating  Organization  Responsibilities.  Nominations requesting AF participation as the OTA are accepted from CCMDs, all Services, Joint Task Forces, DOD Agencies, and other intragovernmental entities. Nominating organizations shall: 2.7.1.  Establish an OPR and designate an AO with subject matter expertise to coordinate with AFJO as the project POC.  (T-1). 2.7.2.  Request from the AFJO/CC assistance in preparing and submitting the nomination in accordance with DOT&E guidance. 2.7.3.  Identify Service, DOD, and intragovernmental entities with an interest in the issue to  include  facilitating  the  coordination  of  resource  sponsorships  and  operational endorsements.  (T-1). 2.7.4.  Fund  travel  costs  for  briefer(s)  to  the  QRTWG  or  PC  and  SAC.    The  briefer(s) should  be  prepared  to  provide  additional  briefings  to  potential  resource  sponsors  and operational endorsers, as well as selection committee members.  (T-1). 2.7.5.  Provide office space, communications capability, and facility/information security for the QRT (normally 3-5 personnel, including contractors).  Test support facilities and JTD support located at Nellis AFB, NV may be available on a case-by-case basis.  (T-2). 2.7.6.  Provides an O-6/GS-15 as the JTD or an  O-5/GS-14 or higher  as  the deputy test director.  (T-2). 2.7.7.  Provides an O-5/GS-14 as the JFS Director or O-4/GS-13 or higher as the deputy JFS director.  (T-2). AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 7 2.7.8.  Provide  an  O-5/GS-14  as  the  QRT  test  director  or  O-4/GS-13  or  higher  as  the deputy  test  director.    Note:  If  the  QRT  is  hosted  at  a  location  other  than  AFJO,  Nellis AFB  NV,  identify  a  local  government  contracting  officer’s  representative  for  contract oversite.  (T-2). 2.7.9.  The  sponsor  is  responsible  for  providing  additional  requisite  access  for  specific JT&E  projects  above  TS/SCI  IAW  DoDD  5205.07,  Special  Access  Program  (SAP) Policy, to support the test and test team.  (T-1). 2.8.  Collaborative  Joint  Test  Assessment  Board  (CTAB).  The  CTAB  include  members from AF/TEP and applicable AF MAJCOM Staffs.  CTAB responsibilities are: 2.8.1.  Coordinate with,  Service sponsors to  determine current  joint  operations priorities that are within scope of a CJT proposal.  (T-2). 2.8.2.  Review  each  CJT  proposal  for  probability  of  successful  completion,  adequate funding and manpower, and proposed implementation of results.  (T-2). 2.8.3.  Meet as needed to approve CJT nominations and direct the preparation of a MOA, including specific caveats for the coordination, execution, and reporting of the project. 2.8.4.  Review the progress of each CT and assess the value of the project in resolving the joint issue.  (T-2). 2.8.5.  Distribute  minutes  of  each  CTAB  meeting  and  maintain  according  to  records disposition schedule and AFJO management policies. 3.  JT Procedures.  This section describes the procedures for nominations and executions of JTs at  AFJO.  DOT&E  issues  bi-annual  calls  for  JTs  generally  in  Mar/Sep  of  each  year.    AFJO subsequently  issues  the  calls  AF-wide  with  submission  deadlines.    Note:    Regardless  of  the proposal deadline, JTs may be submitted to AFJO at any time during the year.  Early submission provides additional time to coordinate with the AFJO staff, address any deficiencies in meeting the  entry  criteria,  and  plan  briefings  to  key  leaders  for  official  endorsement  of  the  test nominations. 3.1.  Project  submission.  AFJO  selects  those  JT  proposals  that  best  meet  the  intent  of  the JT&E program.  Critical factors evaluated include number of Services impacted, urgency and priority  of  operational  shortfall,  and  ability  to  define  a  non-material  solution  within  a  24-month  period.    When  submitting  JT  proposals,  AFJO  assists  all  nominating  agencies  in meeting the following requirements: 3.1.1.  JT  nominations  are  submitted  in  the  JT&E  Call  for  Nomination  format.    A nomination  submission  is  accepted  when  it  includes  both  a  whitepaper  and  brief.    The project  POC  coordinates  with  AFJO  to  finalize  the  nomination.    The  POC  and  AFJO identify briefers for the PC and SAC, along with other required SME support.  (T-2).   3.1.2.  The project POC identifies the Sponsor and product transition lead.  The sponsor provides  the  necessary  test  and  SME  personnel.    AFJO  and  the  POC  collaborate  to identify operational endorsers.  Sponsors and operational endorsers may provide specific capabilities  (such  as  test  assets  or  exercise  venues).    Sponsors,  product  transition  leads and endorsers are from CCMDs, DOD Agencies and Services and are either Flag/General Officer  or  Senior  Executive  level.    These  letters  demonstrate  the  project  is  joint.    If  all 8 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 letters are from a single service, the package is considered a single service and removed from consideration.  (T-2). 3.1.3.  JT nominations submitted after the AFJO deadline are accepted at the discretion of the  AFJO  commander.    These  nominations  are  required  to  be  of  equal  maturity  of existing nominations to be considered for inclusion in the JT cycle. 3.1.4.  The  final  JT  nomination  package  submitted  to  DOT&E  includes  a  written nomination  (i.e.  whitepaper)  and  brief  describing  the  proposed  JT;  a  sponsor  letter, product transition lead letter and at least one endorsement letter.  Additional endorsement letters continue to be sought during the DOT&E review process.  AFJO submits complete JT  nomination  packages  to  DOT&E  approximately  three  months  prior  to  the  Senior Advisory Council.  (T-2). 3.1.5.  Review board.  AFJO conducts a review board on the nominations requesting AF sponsorship. A formal briefing is presented to AFJO, by the sponsor’s proposed briefer or an acceptable alternate.  AFJO then provides assistance to  the project  team  in  resolving the recommendations of the review board.  (T-2). 3.1.6.  Prioritization.  The AFJO Commander briefs all JT nominations requesting AFJO as  the  OTA  to  the  USAFWC/CC  and  AF/TE  to  collaborate  and  determine  AF prioritization. 3.1.7.  JT&E  Review.  DOT&E  reviews  the  nomination  and  provides  comments  to AFJO  and  the  OPR  outlining  any  deficiencies.    This  allows  the  organization  proposing the  nomination  to  make  improvements  to  the  nomination  package  prior  to  the  Planning Committee (PC).  AFJO assists in this effort. 3.1.8.  Planning  Committee.  DOT&E  convenes  the  PC  to  screen  the  nominations  for compliance  with  the  JT&E  entry  criteria.    Formal  briefings  are  presented  to  the committee at the DOT&E facility in Suffolk, VA, by the sponsor’s proposed briefer or an acceptable alternate. 3.1.9.  Updates.  DOT&E  allows  additional  updates  to  the  nomination  package  through the week prior to the Senior Advisory Council (SAC).  AFJO assists in this effort. 3.2.  Senior  Advisory  Council.  DOT&E  convenes  the  SAC  to  select  the  nominations  that are directed as a six month Joint Feasibility Study (JFS).  The SAC also reviews current JFSs and determines which become chartered as Joint Tests.  A formal briefing is presented to the committee at the DOT&E office in the Pentagon, Washington, DC by the sponsor’s proposed briefer or an acceptable alternate. 3.3.  JFS  Directive.  Immediately following the SAC, DOT&E issues a JFS Directive letter specifying  the  participants,  the  start  and  stop  dates,  the  expected  deliverables,  and  the funding limit for each selected nomination.  The SAC may fund up to two JFS. 3.3.1.  The  JFS  is  a  six  month  test  development  study.  The  purpose  of  the  JFS is  to determine  the  feasibility  and  necessity  of  the  proposed  JT.  The  JFS  also  produces  the Project Master Plan and Cost Resource Estimate for the proposed JT. The JFS conducts working groups to refine the problem statement, scope and gain warfighter concurrence.  DOT&E  provides  the  JFS  with  a  milestone  chart  and  work  breakdown  structure  that AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 9 delineates required items and deadlines.  AFJO hosts the JFS; however, the sponsor may host a contractor and provide required support. 3.3.2.  Technical Advisory Board.  DOT&E chairs and convenes two separate Technical Advisory  Boards  (TAB)  to  review  the  status  of  each  JFS.    The  TAB  focus  is identification  of  test  issues,  measures,  data  requirements,  test  venues,  scope  and  test schedule.    The  TAB  chair  provides  a  recommendation  to  the  SAC  on  the  proposed  JT feasibility to conduct, and perceived level of risk associated with accomplishing the JT. 3.4.  Test  Execution  period.  The SAC may  charter one JFS as a JT.  DOT&E issues a JT Charter letter specifying the participants, the start and stop dates, the expected deliverables, and  the  funding  limit  for  each  selected  nomination.    The  24-month  test  execution  period begins  once  the  JT  contract  is  awarded.    The  actual  contract  team  may  not  arrive  at  the designated work location(s) until 5-10 working days after task award. 3.4.1.  The  JTs  are  executed  by  AFJO  Joint  Test  Unit-Nellis  (JTU-N).    AFJO  JTU-N maintains  a  core  staff  to  conduct  joint  tests.    This  staff  is  supplemented  by  a  contract team.    The  JT  team  finalizes  and  executes  the  PMP.    The  team  develops  additional required  documents,  plans  and  events  to  support  the  overall  JT.    The  JT  team  also develops detailed schedules for required documentation to meet JT&E program timelines.  The team organizes JWAG and/or TTP working groups to socialize the problem set and solution  with  the  warfighter.    In  addition,  the  team  conducts  periodic  General  Officer Steering Committee meetings with the sponsor and select  group of endorsers to provide updates to the JT project. 3.4.2.  Test  Resource  Plans  (TRP).  The  PMP  identifies  in  the  annex  section  required test resources.  AFJO JTU-N and the JT team develops and coordinate test resources as required during the test  planning process.  TRPs  are  also  coordinated with  the identified organizations to gain the required resources such as personnel or systems to execute the test.  The test team can request the sponsor to assist in gaining test resources as necessary. 3.4.3.  Planned  test  events.  The PMP delineates the planned test events.   These events include risk mitigation activities (RMA) or risk reduction events (RRE) as practice events for the test team; formal test events  that address  the bulk  of the issues and measures or mini-test events that address a subset of the issues and measures. 3.4.4.  Test article development/validation and refinement occurs throughout the JT.  The test product are finalized after all test events and analysis are complete.  The end result of a Joint Test is the Test Product.  This Product is submitted to the product transition lead, identified on the JT nomination during the closedown period of the JT.  (T-1). 3.4.5.  The JT out-brief and final report are provided to DOT&E at the conclusion of the JT project.  (T-1). 3.5.  JT Resources.  AFJO maintains office space and communications (including SECRET) at Nellis AFB, NV to support JT teams.  However, JTs may have up to a specific number of test team personnel located elsewhere.  The Sponsor and the organizational OPR provides a contracting  officer’s  representative  and  assists  in  locating  sufficient  office  space  and equipment for the test team. 10 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 3.6.  JT  Oversight.  As  the  OTA,  AFJO  provides  oversight  for  all  AF  nominated  JTs.  Support provided includes test management, operations analysis, and information, financial, and personnel security assistance to the test team.  (T-1). 4.  QRT Procedures.  This section describes the procedures used to develop a test proposal into a  formal  JT&E  nomination  package;  support  contract  award  once  a  QRT  is  approved;  and facilitate  successful  test  management  and  oversight  during  the  normal  12-month  execution period.  DOT&E  issues  tri-annual  calls  for  QRT  nominations  generally  in  the  Feb/May/Sep timeframe.    AFJO  subsequently  issues  the  calls  AF-wide  with  submission  deadlines.    Note: Regardless of proposal deadlines QRTs may be submitted to AFJO at any time during the year.  Early  submission  provides  additional  time  to  coordinate  with  the  AFJO  staff,  address  any deficiencies  in  meeting  the  entry  criteria,  and  plan  briefings  to  key  leaders  for  official endorsements of the test nominations. 4.1.  Project submission.  AFJO advocates for those QRT proposals that best meet the intent of  the  JT&E  program.    Critical  factors  evaluated  include  number  of  Services  impacted, urgency  and  priority  of  operational  shortfall,  and  ability  to  define  a  non-material  solution within  a  12-month  period.    When  submitting  QRT  proposals,  AFJO  assists  all  nominating agencies in meeting the following requirements: 4.1.1.  QRT  nominations  are  submitted  in  the  JT&E  Call  for  Nomination  format.    A nomination  submission  is  considered  complete  when  it  includes  both  a  whitepaper  and brief.   The project POC coordinates with AFJO to finalize the nomination.  The POC and AFJO  work  together  to  identify  briefers  for  the  QRT  Working  Group  along  with  other required SME support.  (T-1). 4.1.2.  The project POC identifies the sponsor and product owner.  The sponsor provides the  necessary  test  director  and  SME  personnel.    AFJO  and  the  POC  collaborate  to identify  operational  endorsers.    Sponsors  and  operational  endorsers  provide  specific capabilities  (such  as  test  assets  or  exercise  venues).    Sponsors  and  endorsers  are  from CCMDs,  DOD  Agencies  and  Services  and  are  either  Flag/General  Officer  or  Senior Executive  level.    These  letters  demonstrate  the  project  is  joint.    If  all  letters  are  from  a single service, the package is considered single service and removed from consideration. (T-2). 4.1.3.  QRT nominations submitted after the AFJO deadline are accepted at the discretion of  the  AFJO  commander.    These  nominations  are  required  to  be  of  equal  maturity  of existing nominations to be considered for inclusion in the QRT cycle. 4.1.4.  The  final  QRT  nomination  package  submitted  to  DOT&E  includes  a  written nomination (i.e. whitepaper)  and a nomination briefing describing the proposed QRT, a sponsor letter, at least one endorsement letter and OTA letter.  Other endorsement letters continue to be sought during the DOT&E review process.  (T-2). 4.1.5.  Review board.  AFJO conducts a review board on all nominations requesting AF sponsorship.    A  formal  briefing  is  presented  to  AFJO,  by  the  proposed  QRT  TD  or  an acceptable alternate.  AFJO then provides assistance to the project team in resolving the recommendations of the review board.  (T-2). AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 11 4.1.6.  Prioritization.  The  AFJO  Commander  briefs  all  QRT  nominations  requesting AFJO  as  the  OTA  to  the  USAFWC/CC  and  AF/TE  to  collaborate  and  determine  AF prioritization. 4.1.7.  JT&E  Review.  DOT&E  reviews  the  nomination  and  provides  comments  to  the AFJO  and  OPR  outlining  any  deficiencies.    This  allows  the  organization  proposing  the QRT  to  make  additional  improvements  to  the  nomination  package  prior  to  the  QRT Working Group (QRTWG).  AFJO assists in this effort. 4.1.8.  QRT Working Group.  Three times per year, DOT&E convenes the QRTWG to screen the nominations for compliance with the JT&E entry criteria.  Formal briefings are presented to the committee at the DOT&E facility in Suffolk, VA, by the proposed QRT TD or an acceptable alternate. 4.1.9.  Updates.  DOT&E allows additional updates based on QRT WG feedback to the nomination package prior to submission to the Executive Steering Group (ESG).  AFJO assists in this effort. 4.2.  Executive  Steering  Group.  Three  times  per  year,  DOT&E  transmits  nominations vetted  from  the  QRTWG  via  email  to  the  members  of  the  ESG.    ESG  members  vote  their priorities in a return email. 4.3.  QRT  Directive.  After  the  ESG  vote,  the  DD,  AW  issues  a  QRT  Directive  letter specifying  the  purpose,  participants,  responsibilities,  expected  deliverables,  scheduling  and budget  guidance,  and  delegated  authorities.    There  are  a  number  of  actions  that  need  to  be accomplished  immediately  after  the  QRT  is  directed  to  facilitate  a  timely  contract  award.  These  actions  are  accomplished  by  government  personnel  and  are  necessary  to  ensure  an appropriate contract team is selected to execute the approved test.  The 12-month execution period for QRTs does not start until task award occurs. 4.3.1.  Initial  Documentation.  AFJO  provides  the  QRT  Director  with  templates, samples,  and  expertise  to  initiate  the  project.    AFJO  assists  the  QRT  director  in developing  the  Project  Plan  (PP)  and  supporting  contract  documentation.    The  QRT director  needs  to  complete  the  PP  and  supporting  contract  documentation  immediately after  direction.    Any  delay  to  the  PP  and  contract  documentation  delays  the  contract award and initiation of the 12-month test execution period. 4.3.2.  The  QRT  director,  with  the  support  of  AFJO,  develops  the  Performance  Work Statement, Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan, Independent Government Estimate, and PP. 4.4.  Test  Execution  period.  The  12-month  test  execution  period  begins  once  the  QRT contract  is  awarded.    The  actual  contract  team  may  not  arrive  at  the  designated  work location(s) until 5-10 working days after task award.  Once the contract team reports for duty, the  team  with  assistance  of  the  QRT  director,  immediately  develops  the  work  breakdown structure, drafts the test plan and finalizes the schedule.  Additionally, the team organizes a JWAG  and/or  TTP  working  group  to  socialize  the  problem  set  and  solution  with  the warfighter. 4.4.1.  Test  Resource  Plans  (TRP).  AFJO and the QRT team coordinate test resources as required during the test planning process.  TRPs (if required) are coordinated with the 12 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 identified  organizations  to  gain  the  required  resources  such  as  personnel  or  systems  to execute the test.  The test team can request the sponsor to assist in gaining test resources as necessary. 4.4.2.  Planned Test Events.  Test events are finalized during development of the initial test plan.  For some tests, planned events identified during the nomination process may be exchanged  for  better  testing  venues  identified  during  the  test  planning  process  with  the aid of contract SMEs.  The QRT schedule should include either a RMA or RRE for the QRT team to dry run test execution, data collection, and analysis procedures. 4.4.3.  Test  article  development/validation  and  refinement  occurs  throughout  the  QRT.  The  test  product  are  finalized  after  all  test  events  and  analysis  are  complete.    The  test product(s)  are  transitioned  to  the  identified  product  owner  at  the  completion  of  the project.  (T-1). 4.4.4.  The QRT Out-brief and final report are provided to DOT&E at the conclusion of the QRT project.  (T-1). 4.5.  QRT  Resources.  AFJO  maintains  office  space  and  communications  (including SECRET)  at  Nellis  AFB,  NV  to  support  QRT  teams.  Availability  is  dependent  on  prior occupancy by other projects.  For QRTs located elsewhere, the organizational OPR provides a  contracting  officer’s  representative  and  assists  in  locating  sufficient  office  space  and equipment for the test team (approximately 3-4 personnel). 4.6.  QRT  Oversight.  As  the  OTA,  AFJO  provides  oversight  for  all  AF  nominated  QRTs.  Support provided includes test management, operations analysis, and information, financial, and personnel security assistance to the test team. 4.7.  Extremely  Urgent  QRT.  Extremely Urgent  QRTs are processed outside the standard DOT&E  timeline  and  may  be  submitted  directly  to  AFJO  at  any  time.    AFJO  provides guidance for meeting the submission requirements. 5.  CJT Procedures.  This section describes the procedures for developing a test proposal into a CJT  nomination  package  with  assistance  from  AFJO.    CJT  nominations  may  be  submitted directly  to  AFJO at  any  time.  The CTAB meets as required to  consider  CJT nominations.  JT and  QRT  nominations  not  selected  by  the  DOT&E  JT&E  Program  may  be  submitted  for consideration by the CTAB.  AFJO serves as the AF OTA for CJTs. 5.1.  Initial  Screening.  The  CTAB  convenes  quarterly  (or  as  needed)  to  review  test proposals.  These proposals may include projects not sufficiently matured for submission to or  not  selected  for  continuation  by  the  DOT&E  JT&E  Program,  and  projects  submitted directly to AFJO for review by the CTAB. 5.2.  CTAB  Review.  The  CTAB  selection  criteria  focus  is  the  immediacy  of  the  identified joint need, the availability of resources to conduct the test, and the feasibility of scheduling and  completing  the  test  events.    There  is  no  specified  number  of  participants  but  the  issue should require a joint solution.  For the purpose of the CTAB, joint means any two Service or DOD entities with a mutual interest in resolving the issue. 5.3.  Prioritization.  The  CTAB  maintains  a  priority  list  of  vetted  test  projects.  The prioritization  of  proposals  focuses  on  the  level  of  AF  need  and  level  of  effort  required  to implement the project. AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 13 5.4.  Memorandum of Agreement.  Once the CTAB approves a project, it is removed from the  priority  list  and  preparation  of  a  Memorandum  of  Agreement  (MOA)  between  the participants is initiated.  AFJO supports the drafting of the MOA which serves as the project management  plan.    The  MOA  specifies  the  participants  and  project  lead,  the  resources,  the venues,  the  schedule,  documentation  requirements,  and  test  and  operational  products  of  the project.  (T-1). 5.4.1.  Each CJT is required to prepare a test plan and a test report, and submit quarterly status reports to the CTAB.  (T-1). 5.4.2.  Each CJT is required to prepare an operational summary of the test results for use in developing tactics, techniques, and procedures and instructional media.  (T-1). 5.4.3.  The  MOA  is  signed  /  approved  by  all  participating  organizations.    Additional approvals  of  the  MOA  may  be  needed  by  equivalent  commanders/directors  of  other-Service and DOD entities.  (T-1). 5.5.  Project  Oversight.  AFJO  provides  the  routine  supervision  and  coordination  of  test activities  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  MOA,  with  authority  to  resolve  issues  within  the scope of the MOA.  Issues outside the scope of the MOA are addressed at the next CTAB for a determination to cancel the test, revise the MOA, or continue within scope. 6.  Command Relationships. 6.1.  OTA Designation.  AFJO is designated the Operational Test Agency to administer and execute tests within the AF JT&E Program, including JTs, JFSs, QRTs, and CJTs. 6.2.  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility.  All  AF  participation  in  the  JT&E  Program  is coordinated through AFJO, in addition to providing and coordinating direct support of joint test projects.  (T-1). 6.3.  JT&E  Program  Scope.  AFJO  is  accountable  to  USAFWC/CC  to  ensure  adequate support  of  the  joint  operational  testing  program  as  described  under  the  JT&E  program  in DoDI 5010.41.  AFJO executes the AF JT&E program on behalf of AF/TE per AFPD 99-1 and HAFMD 1-52.  (T-1). 6.3.1.  The JT&E program develops, tests and validates non-material solutions of fielded and soon to be fielded systems.  JT&E provides feedback to the acquisition community; however it does not directly support system acquisition. 6.4.  Waivers.  Unless  otherwise  directed,  waiver  authority  for  contents  within  this  AFI  is AF/TE.    Submit  waiver  requests  to  Headquarters,  Air  Force  Test  and  Evaluation  Policy, Programs, and Resources Division (HQ USAF/TEP), 1530 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1530  DEVIN L. CATE Director, Test and Evaluation 14 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy, 1 Jul 2010 DoDI 5010.41, Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program, 12 Sep 2005 AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation, 3 Jun 2014 HAFMD 1-52, Director of Test and Evaluation, 8 Jan 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 Dec 2015 AFMAN33-363, Management of Record, 1 Mar 2008 Abbreviations and Acronyms AFB—Air Force Base AFI—Air Force Instruction AFJO—Air Force Joint Test Program Office BOS—Base Operations Support CCMD—Combatant Command CJT—Collaborative Joint Test CRE—Consolidated Resource Estimate COR—Contracting Officer’s Representative CSAF—Chief of Staff Air Force DOD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DOT&E—Director, Operational Test and Evaluation DD, AW—DOT&E Deputy Director, Air Warfare ESG—Executive Steering Group EU-QRT—Extremely Urgent QRTs FSD—Feasibility Study Director ISSA—Inter-Service Support Agreement JFS—Joint Feasibility Study JPO—Joint Test & Evaluation Program Office JT—Joint Test JTD—Joint Test Director JT&E—Joint Test and Evaluation AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 15 JTU-N—Joint Test Unit-Nellis JWAG—Joint Warfighters Advisory Group M&S—Modeling and Simulation MAJCOM—Major Command MOA—Memorandum of Agreement MRTFB—Major Range and Test Facility Base OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense PC—Planning Committee PID—Program Introduction Document PP—Project Plan QRT—Quick Reaction Test QRTWG—QRT Working Group RMA—Risk Mitigation Activities RRE—Risk Reduction Events SAC—Senior Advisory Council TAB—Technical Advisory Board TRP—Test Resource Plans TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures UJTL—Universal Joint Task List USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center Terms Air  Force  Joint  Test  Program  Office  (AFJO)—  AFJO  is  the  office  which  facilitates  all  Air Force participation in the DOT&E JT&E process. The AFJO mission is to generate, develop, and support  JT&E  activities  that  enhance  Air  Force  capabilities  and  mission  effectiveness  in  joint operations. Consolidated  Resource  Estimate  (CRE)—  A  detailed  estimate  that  identifies  the  resources necessary to conduct the proposed JT&E project. Executive  Steering  Group  (ESG)— An advisory body composed of senior Defense personnel that recommends to DD-AW which QRT nominations best support the JT&E purposes. Feasibility  Study  Director  (FSD)—  The  individual  responsible  to  DOT&E,  DD-AW  for  the execution of a JFS. Joint Feasibility Study (JFS)— A formal study directed by the DOT&E, DD-AW to determine the feasibility of achieving the desired results within the schedule and resource constraints of the JT&E program.  The JFS is the required precursor for a JT. 16 AFI99-106  23 MARCH 2017 Joint Test (JT—) - A test that responds to an issue of joint doctrine or interoperability that can be planned, executed, and implemented within two years. Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program— JT&E is a program managed by DOT&E/DD-AW to address issues that impede or prevent the interoperability of the Services in achieving the goals  of  the  Combatant  Commands,  Joint  Commands,  and  Joint  Task  Forces.    The  DOT&E JT&E  Program  Office  (JPO)  manages  the  selection  process,  the  execution  of  the  joint  test project, and the implementation of the results.  DOT&E funds the program and the test projects. Joint Test Director (JTD)— The individual responsible to DD-AW for the execution of a JT. Nomination—  A  written  proposal  that  provides  justification  for  funding  a  test  (QRT  or JT) to resolve  a  joint  operational  issue.    The  process  used  to  bring  joint  operational  issues  to  the attention of the DD-AW for a funding decision. Operational  Endorser—  A  senior  leader  or  executive  recommending  to  the  DD-AW  that  a specific test should be conducted due to the benefit expected to be derived from the project, and expresses intent to assist with SME, test venue, and/or resource support as applicable. Planning Committee (PC)— An advisory body composed of working-level Defense personnel that provides the initial screening of the QRT nominations and recommends to  the SAC which QRT nominations best support the JT&E purposes. Quick  Reaction  Test  (QRT)—  A  test  that  responds  to  an  emerging  joint  operational  issue  or requirement that can be planned, executed, and implemented within one year. Sponsor— This is the senior leader / organization that has the preponderance of the following: most interest in solving the problem, nominates and briefs the test to QRTWG or PC, provides SMEs, assists with test venues, provides the feasibility study and test director, and owns the test product and product transition.  The sponsor provides material support to the JT&E project such as  aircraft  flying  hours,  equipment  operating  hours,  information  protection  and  assurance, specialized test equipment, functional training, personnel, etc. Senior  Advisory  Council  (SAC)—  An  advisory  body  composed  of  senior  Defense  personnel that recommends to DD-AW which JFS & JT nominations best support the JT&E purposes. Technical  Advisory  Board  (TAB)—  An  advisory  body  composed  of  Defense  science  and technology personnel that reviews the test planning progress of the JFS and recommends to the SAC which are seen as technically feasible and the level of risk to successful completion of the JT.  