BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-801 4 AUGUST 2016 Special Management ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH COUNCILS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/IEE    (Lt Col David R. Gilliam) Supersedes:  AFI90-801, 25 March 2005  Certified by: SAF/IEE  (Mr. Mark A. Correll) Pages: 11 This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational  Health  Management  and  Risk  Management  by  establishing  Environment,  Safety, and  Occupational  Health  (ESOH)  Councils  at  HQ  USAF  (HAF),  HQ  Major  Commands (MAJCOMs)  and  at  installations  to  ensure  a  systematic,  inter-disciplinary  approach  to  achieve ESOH goals  throughout  the Air Force.  This  instruction applies to  all Air Force personnel,  Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard and all Air Force installations. In instances where the Air Force,  Air  Force  Reserve,  or  Air  National  Guard  organizations  and  personnel  are  tenants  to  a non-Air Force organization, those personnel will follow the requirements identified in applicable and enforceable agreements in accordance with (IAW) AFI 25-201, Intra-Service, Intra-Agency, and Inter-Agency Support Agreements Procedures.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). more information on AFRIMS may be found  at  https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  This  publication  may  be supplemented at  any level,  but  direct  supplements must not  contain conflicting material  or less restrictive guidance. The authorities to waive requirements in this publication are identified with a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See  AFI  33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  SAF/IEE  is  the  waiver  authority  for  all  non-tiered  requirements  in  the  AFI.    Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command to SAF/IEE, 1665 AF Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1665, usaf.pentagon.saf-ie-workflow@mail.mil.  2 AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has many changes and needs to be completely reviewed.  This AFI outlines the role  of  the  HAF  and  MAJCOM  ESOH  Council  (ESOHC).    It  introduces  the  option  to  use  a Steering  Committee  (ESOHSC)  and  outlines  its  role.    It  further  describes  reportable  items,  the role of AF Installation & Mission Support Center (AFIMSC), and incorporates the requirement for tiering. Section A—How To Use This Instruction 1.  Background.  The  Air  Force  will  provide  safe  and  healthful  workplaces  and  conduct operations  in  a  manner  that  minimizes  risk  to  mission  accomplishment  while  preserving resources, protecting the environment, and safeguarding military and civilian personnel and the public  both  on  and  off  the  installation.  As  the  senior  Air  Force  environment,  safety,  and occupational  health  council  at  each  level  of  command,  the  ESOHC  reviews  policies  and programs,  establishes  goals,  monitors  progress,  and  advises  leadership.  ESOHCs  oversee implementation of AFPD 90-8 and all related guidance.  ESOHCs are an integral part of the Air Force various ESOH Management Systems. 2.  Concept. 2.1.  This instruction provides HAF, MAJCOMs or equivalents which includes the National Guard  Bureau  (NGB)  and  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC),  with  a  framework  to oversee  the  Core  Mission  Areas’  integration  of  Air  Force  ESOH    programs  at  their installations  as  defined  by  AFPD  90-8,  AFPD  91-2,  Safety  Program,  AFPD  32-70 Environmental Quality (currently being retitled Environmental Considerations In Air Force Programs  And  Activities),  AFPD  40-2,  Radioactive  Materials,  and  AFPD  48-1,  Aerospace Medicine Enterprise. 2.2.  The ESOHC should ensure the appropriate level of ESOH assets are sustained, restored, and modernized to achieve the desired mission capability using a risk-based decision making process. 3.  Purpose.  The  ESOHC  is  the  cornerstone  of  the  ESOH  program  and  provides  senior leadership involvement and direction at all levels of command to ensure compliance, reduce risk, and  continuously  improve;  annually  establishes  goals,  measures,  objectives,  and  targets;  and provides additional ESOH guidance to subordinate organizations as required.  The ESOHC is the key element in the Plan-Do-Check-Act sequence in the AF various ESOH Management Systems.  At  all  levels  of  command,  it  serves  to  identify  issues  that  are  beyond  its  span  of  control  and raises those issues with the next higher command level ESOHC for assistance and direction. 4.  ESOHC  Membership.  ESOHC  members  ensure  their  areas  of  responsibility  participate  in the inter-disciplinary, integrated approach to  ESOH issues. All  ESOHCs must comply with  the responsibilities outlined in Section B.   AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 3 4.1.  HQ Air Force (HAF): The ESOHC will be co-chaired by SAF/IE and the Vice Chief of Staff  of  the  Air  Force.  The  membership  will  include  representatives  from  the  appropriate Secretariat  and  Air  Staff  two-letter  offices  who  will  appoint  a  primary  and  an  alternate member.  The  members  must  be  a  General  Officer  or  a  member  of  the  Senior  Executive Service (SES). The ESOHC chairpersons designate other members to serve on the ESOHC as required.    SAF/IEE  will  serve  as  executive  secretary.    HAF  will  ensure  ESOHCs  are established  at  MAJCOMs  and  will  monitor  their  compliance  with  this  AFI  and  other directives  as  applicable  to  ESOH  management  and  oversight.    Under  the  authority  of  the HAF ESOHC, an ESOHSC may be chartered to function as the headquarters ESOH working group. 4.1.1.  HAF ESOHSC: The ESOHSC will be chaired by SAF/IEE.  The membership will include representatives from the appropriate Secretariat and Air Staff two-letter offices at the O-6 or GS-15 level who have decision making authority.  The ESOHSC chairperson may designate other members to serve on the ESOHSC as required. 4.2.  MAJCOMs: The commander will serve as the chairperson, but may delegate to the vice commander. The ESOHC membership will include representatives from the appropriate two-letter offices.   Each appropriate directorate/staff office designates a primary and an alternate member  with  decision-making  authority  to  serve  on  the  ESOHC.  The  ESOHC  chairperson designates other members to serve on the ESOHC as required. The chairperson will appoint the  executive  secretary.  MAJCOMs  will  ensure  ESOHCs  are  established  at  all  installations within the operational control of the MAJCOMs and monitor their compliance with this AFI and  other  directives  as  applicable  to  ESOH  management  and  oversight.    The  ESOHC monitors  progress  toward  achieving  higher  headquarters  goals,  reports  progress,  and  raises issues to higher headquarters for assistance/resolution.  Under the authority of the MAJCOM ESOHC, an ESOHSC may be chartered to function as the MAJCOM ESOH working group. 4.2.1.  MAJCOM ESOHSC: The ESOHSC should be chaired by an O-6/GS-15 or above and  appointed  by  the  MAJCOM  Commander.   The  membership  will  include representatives from the appropriate two-letter offices as determined by the chairperson.  The  ESOHSC  chairperson  may  designate  other  members  to  serve  on  the  ESOHSC  as required. 4.3.  Installations:  The  installation  commander  will  serve  as  the  chairperson,  but  may delegate  to  the  vice  wing  commander.    (T-1)  In  addition,  the  ESOHC  membership  will include group and squadron commanders including tenant organizations and representatives from each (E, S, and OH) discipline including all safety disciplines, deemed necessary by the chairperson as a minimum. (T-3) The chairperson will appoint the executive secretary. (T-3) The Designated Employee Representative will be invited to participate unless representation is  otherwise  covered  under  management-labor  contracts.  (T-3)  The  ESOHC  monitors progress  toward  achieving  higher  headquarters  goals,  reports  progress,  and  raises  issues  to higher headquarters for assistance/resolution.  (T-1)   4 AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 Section B—Requirements and Records 5.  Responsibilities: 5.1.  HQ USAF (HAF) will: 5.1.1.  Conduct an ESOHC meeting as needed, determined by the ESOHC Co-Chairs. 5.1.2.  Directs the ESOHSC to: 5.1.2.1.  Identify  to  the  Air  Force  Corporate  Structure  issues  critical  to  mission capability and the impact of resource allocation decisions on ESOH. 5.1.2.2.  Review  adequacy  of  policies,  resources,  and  performance  in  meeting  goals and make recommendations to Chief of Staff on changes required. 5.1.2.3.  Work  with  other  HAF  two-letter  offices  to  develop  policy  for  emerging legislation and  regulations, maintaining and improving the various  Air  Force ESOH Management Systems, and provide an annual management system assessment based on  the  developed  measures  of  effectiveness  and  annual  reports  from  MAJCOM ESOHCs to SECAF and Chief of Staff. 5.1.2.4.  Oversee  ESOH  Management  Systems  implementation  and  effectiveness  to ensure  continual  improvement  is  consistent  with  Air  Force  ESOH  risk-based performance goals and objectives. 5.1.2.5.  Champion inclusion of Air Force-unique ESOH needs in the development of the  Core  Function  Support  Plans  (CFSPs),  Initial  Capabilities  Documents  (ICDs), Capability  Development  Documents  (CDDs),  and  Capability  Production  Documents (CPDs). 5.2.  Major Commands (MAJCOMs) will: 5.2.1.  Establish  an  ESOHC  to  act  as  the  primary  executive  council  to  ensure  ESOH management  decisions  enhance  mission  capability.    ESOHC  chair  may  direct  a MAJCOM ESOHSC to execute the duties of the MAJCOM ESOHC. 5.2.1.1.  An  ESOHC  or  ESOHSC  must  meet  at  least  semi-annually  and  are encouraged  to  meet  face-to-face  but  may  use  other  avenues,  such  as  virtually  e.g. video  tele-conferences  (VTC)  or  Defense  Collaboration  Services  (DCS).    The ESOHSC  should  be  chaired  by  an  O-6/GS-15  or  above.    If  an  ESOHSC  is established, the ESOHC may meet as needed, as determined by the ESOHC Chair. 5.2.2.  Appoint  an  executive  secretary  who  will  be  responsible  for  all  committee arrangements,  establish  the  meeting  schedule,  develop  and  distribute  the  agenda  in advance, serve as the meeting facilitator, record, and publish committee minutes. 5.2.3.  Address  appropriate  topics  to  meet  ESOHC  responsibilities  and  consider additional topics from Attachment 2 or other topics as appropriate, as determined by the chairperson. 5.2.4.  Champion  inclusion  of  ESOH  in  Program  Action  Directives,  Operational  Plans, ICDs,  CDDs,  CPDs,  Program  Objective  Memorandums  (POM)  and  Budget  Execution Submissions (BES), where applicable. AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 5 5.2.5.  Review implementing ESOH policy and guidance and make recommendations to HAF on required changes. 5.2.6.  Develop,  approve,  and  monitor  ESOH  risk-based  performance  goals,  measures, and objectives. 5.2.7.  Report  annually  the  progress  on  ESOH  goals  as  defined  by  next  higher  level ESOHC and any issues requiring higher level assistance or direction. 5.2.8.  Provide guidance and oversight for implementing, maintaining, and improving Air Force ESOH Management Systems to installations as required. 5.2.9.  Report  annually  to  the  next  higher  level  ESOHC  on  the  effectiveness  of  the management  systems  (based  on  the  measures  of  effectiveness  developed  by  the  HAF ESOHSC),  evaluate  high-risk  and/or  problematic  open  findings  and  track  progress  to correct validated deficiencies until closure. 5.2.10.  Report and track instances where a mission or operation has been, or is expected to  be  negatively  impacted  because  of  ESOH  restrictions;  and  actions  taken  to  affect change or eliminate the impact. 5.2.11.  Review PMRs from each (E, S, and OH) discipline at least annually. 5.2.12.  Sign  ESOHC  and/or  ESOHSC  minutes  which  must  include  an  annual  PMR review from each discipline. 5.3.  AF Installation & Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) will: 5.3.1.  Provide  civil  engineering  program  management,  resourcing  and  support  to  HAF, MAJCOMs, and installation to include calling into ESOHCs or ESOHSCs as required. 5.3.2.  Provide  MAJCOM  &  installation  ESOHCs  or  ESOHSCs  the  appropriate environmental  functional  oversight,  analysis,  reporting  and  subject  matter  expertise needed to fulfill the “E” portion of the ESOH activities outlined in this AFI. 5.3.3.  Support  the  HAF  ESOHSC  by  providing  reports  on  environmental  performance and  contributing  to  the  preparation  of  an  annual  Environmental  Management  System (EMS) assessment. 5.4.  Installations will: 5.4.1.  Establish  an  ESOHC  that  meets  at  least  semi-annually  to  act  as  the  primary executive  council  to  ensure  ESOH  management  decisions  enhance  mission  capability. ESOHCs are encouraged to meet face-to-face but may use other avenues to conduct their ESOHC  meetings,  such  as  virtually  e.g.  video  tele-conferences  (VTC)  or  Defense Collaboration Services (DCS).    (T-1) 5.4.1.1.  ANG  Installations  with  less  than  200  full  time  personnel  will  establish  an ESOHC,  but  based  on  available  resources,  may  adjust  the  frequency  of  meetings through coordination and concurrence with the ANG ESOHC. (T-1) 5.4.2.  Appoint  an  executive  secretary  who  will  be  responsible  for  all  committee arrangements,  establish  the  meeting  schedule,  develop  and  distribute  the  agenda  in advance, serve as the meeting facilitator, record, and publish committee minutes. (T-3) 6 AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 5.4.3.  Ensure a systematic, interdisciplinary approach to ESOH and ensure core mission areas integrate this approach into planning, budgeting and decision making. (T-2) 5.4.4.  Use  risk-assessment  methodology  to  identify  and  prioritize  requirements  that maximize  mission  performance  and  minimize  ESOH  risk  and  cost,  to  include preventative actions based on compliance trends from inspections. (T-2) 5.4.5.  Address  appropriate  topics  to  meet  ESOHC  responsibilities  and  consider additional topics from Attachment 2 or other topics as appropriate, as determined by the chairperson. 5.4.6.  Establish sub-groups and/or utilize existing working groups such as the Hazardous Material  Management  Process  (HMMP)  Team,  EMS  Cross  Functional  Team,  Drinking Water Working Group, Occupational Environmental Health Working Group (OEHWG), Aerospace  Medicine  Council  (AMC),  and  others  to  ensure  oversight  in  implementing, maintaining, improving each (E, S, and OH) disciplines management system. (T-3) 5.4.7.  Champion  inclusion  of  ESOH  in  Program  Action  Directives,  Operational  Plans, ICDs, CDDs, CPDs, POM, and Budget Execution Submissions (BES), where applicable. (T-2) 5.4.8.  Review implementing ESOH policy and guidance and make recommendations on required changes. (T-2) 5.4.9.  Develop,  approve,  and  monitor  ESOH  risk-based  performance  goals,  and objectives. (T-1) 5.4.10.  Report annually  on the progress  of ESOH goals  as defined by next  higher level ESOHC and any issues requiring higher level assistance or direction until closure. (T-1) 5.4.11.  Report  annually  to  the  next  higher  level  ESOHC  on  the  effectiveness  of  the management  systems,  evaluate  high  risk  and/or  problematic  open  findings,  and  track progress to correct validated deficiencies.  (T-1) 5.4.11.1.  Review  PMRs  from  each  (E,  S,  and  OH)  discipline  at  least  annually. Management  system  conformance  evaluation  includes  review  of  Unit  Effectiveness Inspections (UEI) results under the AF Inspection System (AFIS). 5.4.12.  Report  on  installation’s  Master  Hazard  Abatement  Plan  and  highlight  RACs coded 1 through 3 that will not be corrected within 60 days. (T-1) 5.4.13.  Report and track instances where a mission or operation has been, or is expected to  be  negatively  impacted  because  of  ESOH  restrictions;  and  actions  taken  to  affect change, or eliminate the impact. (T-1) 5.4.14.  Provide signed ESOHC minutes which must include an annual PMR review from each discipline.  (T-1)   AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 7 6.  Records: 6.1.  Preparation:  Within  30  days  following  an  ESOHC  meeting,  the  executive  secretary prepares and coordinates minutes. The minutes will summarize substance and outcome of all discussions. (T-3) 6.2.  Privileged  Information.  Privileged  safety  information  will  not  be  discussed  during  the meeting  unless  everyone  has  been  properly  trained  and  at  no  time  should  privileged information  be  published  in  the  minutes.    The  preparing  organization  must  comply  with instructions  for  handling  and  release  of  privileged  information  in  accordance  with  AFI  91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports. (T-1) 6.3.  Distribution:  Executive  secretary  will  forward  ESOH  minutes  to  all  council  members. (T-3) Secretaries shall forward copies of subordinate ESOHC minutes to all primary council members. Distribution will comply with Section  6.2 In addition, 6.3.1.  HAF  ESOHC:  Distribute  minutes  to  Direct  Reporting  Units  and  Field  Operating Agency commanders and MAJCOM ESOHC executive secretaries. (T-1) 6.3.2.  MAJCOM  and  Installation  ESOHC:  Distribute  minutes  to  next  higher  level ESOHC executive secretary. (T-1) 6.4.  Executive secretaries keep the ESOHC minutes and related documents per AFI 33-364, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities and AFMAN 33-363. (T-1)  MIRANDA A. A. BALLENTINE, EX-IV Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Installations, Environment and Energy 8 AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DODI 6055.01, DoD Safety and Occupational Health Program, (SOH), 14 Oct 2014 AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994 AFPD 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear Weapons), 12 January 2015 AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 8 December 2014 AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 2 February 2012 AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 July 2012 AFI 25-201, Intra-Service, Intra-Agency, and Inter-Agency Support Agreements Procedures, 18 Oct 2013 AFI 32-7047, Environmental Compliance, Release and Inspection Reporting, 22 Jan 15 AFI 32-7091, Environmental Management Outside the United States, 18 Mar 16 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 33-364, Records Disposition- Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006 AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 Feb 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1 2008 Abbreviations and Acronyms AFIS—Air Force Inspection System AMC—Aerospace Medicine Council BES—Budget Execution Submissions CFSPs—Core Function Support Plans CDD—Capability Development Documents CPD—Capability Production Documents DCS—Defense Collaboration Services ESOH—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health ESOHC—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council ESOHSC—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Steering Committee EMS—Environmental Management System HAF—Headquarters US Air Force ICD—Initial Capabilities Documents AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 9 OEHSA—Occupational environmental health site assessment PMR—Program Management Review POM—Program Objective Memorandums UEI—Unit Effectiveness Inspections VTC—Video Tele-conferences Terms AFIMSC—A center which provides centralized management of installation and mission support capabilities across the Air Force and is subordinate to AFMC. Core  Mission  Areas—For  the  purposes  of  this  AFI  and  Air  Force  Environment,  Safety,  and Occupational  Health (ESOH) programs,  the term  “Core Mission  Areas” refers to  the  following organizations at every level of command (where they exist): Operations, Maintenance, Mission Support, Medical, and Acquisition. Designated  Employee  Representative—An  individual  selected  by  civilian  employees,  either directly  or  through  an  exclusive  representation  bargaining  agreement,  to  represent  them  as  a member of the ESOHC. Enduring  Location— A location is enduring when DoD intends to maintain access and use of that location for the foreseeable future. The following types of sites are considered enduring for U.S.  Government  purposes:  main  operating  base,  forward  operating  site,  and  cooperative security  location.  All  three  types  of  locations  may  be  composed  of  more  than  one  distinct site. Enduring locations are published in the OSD-approved Enduring Location Master List. Environmental  Impact  Analysis  Process  (EIAP)—The  Air  Force’s  process  that  defines  a systematic, interdisciplinary approach to making environmentally informed decisions, consistent with  the  National  Environmental  Policy  Act  (NEPA)  and  the  President's  Council  on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing NEPA. Environment,  Safety,  and  Occupational  Health  (ESOH)—ESOH  includes  environmental programs  (pollution  prevention,  conservation,  clean-up,  etc.),  environmental  health,  fire protection, safety, and occupational health disciplines. Environment,  Safety,  and  Occupational  Health  Assets—The  workforce  and  natural infrastructure necessary to support operational capability over perpetual useful life. Environment,  Safety,  and  Occupational  Health  Councils  (ESOHC)—The ESOH group that reviews policies and programs, establishes goals, monitors progress, and advises leadership. Environment,  Safety,  and  Occupational  Health  Management  Systems—The  Air  force's management systems are a set of processes and practices that enable an organization to reduce its environmental  Safety,  and  Occupational  Health  impacts  and  increase  its  operating  efficiency. They are designed to continually improve mission performance by systematically identifying and reducing ESOH risks and costs.  Each function has its own spate management system. Environmental Health—The discipline and program concerned with identifying and preventing illness  and  injury  due  to  exposure  to  hazardous  chemical,  physical,  and  biological  agents  that 10 AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 may be encountered in the ambient environment – air, water, or soil at in-garrison and deployed locations. Installation—  An  enduring  location  consisting  of  a  base,  camp,  post,  station,  yard,  center,  or other DoD activity under the operational control of the Secretary of a Military Department or the Secretary of Defense. MAJCOMs—A  major  Air  Force  subdivision,  including  reserves  and  guard,  with  a  specific portion of the overall mission and directly subordinate to HAF. Occupational Health—The discipline and program concerned with identifying potential hazards in  the  workplace  and  preventing  illness  resulting  from  work-related  factors.  It  includes  the prevention of illness during deployments to reduce disease and non-battle injury - (DNBI) rates. Risk—A  combination  of  the  probability  and  severity  of  a  loss  or  an  adverse  impact  resulting from exposure to hazards. The greater the risk, the more likely it will cause a drain on resource capability and negatively affect the mission. Risk  Management  (RM)—The  systematic  process  of  identifying  hazards,  assessing  risk, analyzing  risk  control  options  and  measures,  making  control  decisions,  implementing  control decisions,  formally  accepting  residual  risks,  and  supervising/reviewing  the  activity  for effectiveness. Safety—The  discipline  and  program  concerned  with  the  prevention  of  any  active  or  latent condition that can cause mission degradation, injury or death to personnel, or damage to, or loss of, systems, equipment, facilities, or property. Sustain,  Restore  &  Modernize  (SRM)—Principle  used  to  ensure  a  calculated  level  of investment  targeted  to  preserve  and  improve  all  infrastructures,  including  natural  (previously applied only to built infrastructure). Virtual  Meeting—An  event  or  series  of  events  where  participants  join  in  from  multiple locations  in  “real  time”,  participating  at  the  same  time,  often  by  teleconference  or  video conference.  Passing a set of slides around and having members sign them does not meet HAF's oversight intent.  AFI90-801  4 AUGUST 2016 11 Attachment 2 OPTIONAL DISCUSSION TOPICS AS APPROPRIATE 1. Annual review of the ESOH management system conformance 2. Annual PMR summary for Environmental, Occupational and Environmental Health, and Safety (which includes PMRs from occupational, flight, weapons and space safety) 3. Review annual ESOH and fire protection health goals and objectives 4. Review installation OEHSA annually and other site-specific environmental health exposure information 5. Summary of inspection, assessment, and evaluation results 6. Letters from regulatory agencies (such as inspection reports and notices of noncompliance with environmental requirements and consent orders) 7. Review accident and incident trends (including dangerous goods movements), safety initiatives and private sector and other governmental agency best practices 8. Review changes in ESOH program guidelines and Administrative orders 9. Review of the installation master hazard abatement program and analysis of hazard reports 10. Analysis of mishap experience 11. Status of Occupational Health Medical Examination Program and occupational illnesses 12. Review Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) undertakings for consideration early in the planning process to include planning; programming; resource requirements; and potential impacts.  For completed projects, review completion status of mitigation efforts 13. Summary of MAJCOM's status in maintaining environmental standards (eg ISO 14000 EMS Standards) as reported by installations and measured through the AFIS UEI process 14. Status and progress in meeting compliance schedules  15. Summary of Federal Employee Compensation Act (FECA) Working Group report 16. Status of Respiratory Protection, Confined Space, Drinking Water, and Radiation Protection Programs 17. Unfulfilled compliance agreements 18. Briefing on compensation program charge-back costs and continuation of pay (COP) costs for both DAF and NAF mishaps  