BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2871 10 JUNE 2016 Personnel AIR FORCE INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS EXCELLENCE AWARD     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/IAPR   Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly, SES) Pages: 11  This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and  Decorations  Programs.    It  directs  the  presentation  of  this  annual  award,  recognizing outstanding and innovative contributions that had the greatest impact in International Affairs by Air  Force  military  or  civilian  employees  in  various  categories.    It  explains  eligibility requirements,  the  selection  process,  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force’s  award  presentation.  This  instruction  applies  to  all  Regular  Air  Force  (AF),  Air  Force  Reserve  (AFR),  Air  National Guard  (ANG)  members,  and  civilian  employees  paid  through  appropriated  funds.    In collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve  (HQ  USAF/RE)  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (HQ  USAF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for  Air  Force  Awards  Decorations,  and  Special Recognition Programs.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  This Instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, System of Records  Notices  (SORN)  F036  AFPC  V,  Awards  and  Decorations,  apply  and  is  available  at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.   Send  recommendations  for  changes  or comments to the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA), 1080 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 22330-1080, through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. 2 AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision corrects OPR from  IAPA to  IAPR and corrects the email address for submission.  It changes the award recipient from one Airmen per year to creating four award categories.  Also, it changes the award suspense date and the convening date of the selection board.  It clarifies the directions  to  the  Form  1206  to  include  three  headings:    Leadership  and  Job  Performance  in Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base or Community Involvement. AIR FORCE INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS EXCELLENCE AWARD 1.  Purpose. 1.1.  This  award  annually  recognizes  individual  airmen  for  outstanding  and  innovative contributions that had the greatest impact in International Affairs and were most effective in building,  sustaining,  expanding,  and  guiding  international  relationships.    These  are  critical enablers  for  United  States  Air  Force  expeditionary  air  and  space  forces  conducting  global operations. 1.2.  The contributions include, but are not limited to, activities that demonstrate excellence in  Political-Military  Assessment,  Security  Assistance  and  Cooperation,  Comparative Weapons  Analysis,  International  Professional  Development,  Interagency  Liaison,  Foreign Disclosure  and  Technology  Transfer,  Senior  Leader  Foreign  Travel  and  Visit  Preparation.  They also include activities that build interoperable coalition capabilities through initiatives such as Basing, Over-flight, Access, Exercises, Training, Foreign Military Sales, Information Sharing, Disclosure, and Personnel Exchanges. 2.  Award Criteria. 2.1.  Determination of the award is based on contributions above and beyond the individual's primary  duties  and  responsibilities.    Examples  include  an  achievement,  particularly  high quality  of  work,  a  creative  idea  or  innovation,  etc.,  expressed  in  some  action/activity  that clearly shows an exceptional impact upon International Affairs. 2.2.  The  contribution(s)  may  have  resulted  in  major  products  and/or  identifiable  outcomes that  demonstrate  excellence  in  building,  sustaining,  expanding,  and  guiding  international relationships, including, but not limited to:  improving coalition warfighting capabilities and partner  air force interoperability;  enhancing an international  partner’s ability to  secure their own  borders,  respond  to  humanitarian  crisis/natural  disasters,  and  participate  in  collective security and coalition operations. 2.3.  The overarching principle in the review process is leadership.  The Selection Board will look for evidence of leadership traits, such as initiative, judgment, decisiveness, persistence, etc., that were instrumental in their achievements. 3.  Award Categories and Eligibility. 3.1.  Regular  AF,  AFR,  ANG  members,  and  civilian  employees  paid  through  appropriated funds are eligible for this award.  Nominees may work in any AF, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Combatant Command, and Interagency organization at any level of command.  This award  is  an  incentive  meant  to  inspire,  motivate,  and  recognize  Airmen  below  the  rank  of flag officer and Senior Executive Service. AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 3 3.2.  The following criteria apply to the award: 3.2.1.  Those  nominated  should  be  continuing  their  federal  civilian  or  military  service with  the  government  and  should  not  have  an  approved  separation  or  retirement  date.  Contract personnel are not eligible for this award. 3.2.2.  Individual awards program submissions:  individuals promoted on or before 1 July will be submitted in the category of their new rank. 3.3.  Each  SAF/Headquarter  Air  Force  (HAF)  2-letter,  Major  Command  (MAJCOM),  Field Operating  Agency  (FOA),  or  Direct  Reporting  Unit  (DRU)  may  submit  one  individual  in each of the following categories: 3.3.1.  Officer (Second Lieutenant through Colonel). 3.3.2.  Enlisted (Amn through CMSgt). 3.3.3.  Senior Civilian (GS-13 thru GS-15) 3.3.4.  Junior Civilian (up to GS-12) 4.  Award Period of Service. 4.1.  The award program is on a calendar year basis, 1 January-31 December. 5.  Nomination Due Date, Process, and Authorities. 5.1.  An AF-wide nomination call is  issued via Air Force Personnel  Center (AFPC) in  time for nomination packages to be received by SAF/IA no later than 15 April of each year.  All nominations  are  submitted  on  the  latest  version  of  AF  Form  IMT  1206,  Nomination  for Award,  IAW  AFPD  36-28,  Awards  and  Decorations  Program.    Nominations  are  one  page (front  side  only),  single-spaced,  12  pitch,  Times  New  Roman  font,  and  in  accordance  with award  criteria,  eligibility,  and  award  period  of  service  during  the  applicable  calendar  year only.  Nominations  are submitted in  bullet  format with  three headers and not  more than 40 lines  of  text.    (The  three  headers  do  not  count  as  lines  of  text.)    The  first  header  reads “LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY.”  The majority of the 40  bullets  should  be  listed  under  this  heading.    The  second  header  reads,  “SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT.”    Up  to  four  lines  of  text  should  be  used  here  to  describe  the nominee’s  efforts  at  self-improvement  during  the  award  period.    The  third  header  reads “BASE  OR  COMMUNITY  INVOLVEMENT.”    Up  to  four  lines  of  text  should  be  used under this header to describe the base or community involvement during the award period.  A cover page, endorsement letter signed by the HAF two-letter official, MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Commander, Vice Commander, or Executive Director, and a citation in accordance with AFI 36-2805,  Special  Trophies  and  Awards,  accompanies  each  nomination.    The  cover  page includes:    nominee  name,  rank/grade,  unit/office  symbol,  AF  Specialty  Code/Occupational Series,  position  title,  description  of  duties  and  responsibilities,  and  phone  number  of  the endorser’s  administrative  point  of  contact.    Send  nomination  packages  via  e-mail  to  USAF Pentagon  SAF-IA  Mailbox  SAF-IAPR  HR-Manpower  (usaf.pentagon.saf-ia.mbx.saf-iagr-hr-manpower@mail.mil). 5.2.  HAF  2-letter  officials  (or  their  designated  authorities)  are  the  nominating  officials  for AF  personnel  assigned  to  those  organizations.    Each  organization  may  nominate  one individual per category. 4 AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 5.3.  MAJCOM commanders (or their designated authorities) are the nominating officials for AF  personnel  assigned  or  attached  to  the  Command.    Each  command  may  nominate  one individual per category. 5.4.  Commanders of  AF  and  command-level DRUs and  FOAs are the nominating officials for  AF  personnel  assigned  or  attached  to  those  organizations.    Each  organization  may nominate one individual per category. 5.5.  Commanders  of  independent  centers  or  units  administratively  aligned  under  a MAJCOM  or  Numbered  Air  Force  but  perform  specialized  AF  or  Command-level  tasked activities  that  extend  beyond  the  scope  of  the  command’s  subordinate  units  may  skip command  competitive  echelons.    Each  organization  may  nominate  one  individual  per category. 6.  Public Release Statement. 6.1.  Each  nominee  signs  a  public  release  statement  that  reads  verbatim:    "I  do  or  do  not (circle  one)  agree  to  the  use  of  Privacy  Act  information  in  the  nomination  narrative.    This information  may  include  privacy  information  or  personally  identifiable  information  (PII) found in AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, Chapter 6, Disclosing Records  to  Third  Parties.    I  understand  those  transmitting  personal  information  via  e-mail will  exercise  caution  and  adequately  safeguard  it.    The  announcement  message  or  any publicity  regarding  the  award  nomination  will  contain  no  privacy  information  other  than name, rank, and base of assignment."  The nominee must sign and date this statement. 7.  Endorsement Letter and Records Check. 7.1.  An  endorsement  letter  signed  by  the  HAF  2-letter  official,  MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Commander,  Vice  Commander,  Executive  Director,  or  designee  should  be  submitted.    The letter should also include the phrase "A records check was conducted on (date) and revealed no information that would bring discredit to the award or the U.S. Air Force."  This may be delegated  to  the  A1  director  by  the  MAJCOM/FOA/DRU  commander.    This  may  be  a scanned or PDF document. 8.  Selection Panel and Process. 8.1.  SAF/IA manages this award program. 8.2.  The Deputy Under Secretary, International Affairs or Assistant Deputy Under Secretary, International  Affairs,  chairs  the  selection  panel.    Panel  membership  is  comprised  of  five voting  members,  including  the  chair.    USAF  military  members  and  federal  civilian employees  assigned  to  units  at  any  level  of  command  with  working  experience  with International Affairs programs and operations may serve as panel members.  Panel members shall  be  senior  in  rank  to  the  nominees  competing  for  the  award.    SAF/IAPR  provides  the panel administrator and determine panel membership based on the above criteria.  The panel convenes no later than 60 calendar days prior to the presentation ceremony date. 8.3.  Panel  members  work  independently  as  they  evaluate  nomination  packages.    Panel members  focus  on  the  contributions  above  and  beyond  the  nominee’s  primary  duties  and responsibilities,  and  annotate  the  nature  and  scope  of  achievements  that  demonstrate excellence  in  building,  sustaining,  expanding,  and  guiding  international  relationships.  During  the  selection  panel  or  meeting,  members  justify  their  top  three  nominees  and  then AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 5 vote by ballot for their top nominee.  The panel  administrator tallies the votes to determine the award recipient. 8.4.  The panel chair certifies the panel members’ scores and the outcome of the competition.  He or she is also the decision-maker for ties and splits.  The panel  administrator assists the panel  chair  with  adjudicating  the  need  for  any  rescoring  actions  in  the  event  of  major  split decisions between panel members.  Rescoring may take place only if it changes the outcome of  the  competition  and  the  decision  for  panel  members  to  rescore  nominees  rests  with  the panel chair. 9.  Award Announcement and Description. 9.1.  SAF/IA  announces  the  award  recipient  by  AFPC  message.    The  award  consists  of  the following  components:    a  SAF/IA  Excellence  Award  trophy  and  a  citation  signed  by  the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.    Recipients  of  this  award  are  authorized  to  wear  the  Air  Force Recognition  Ribbon  in  accordance  with  AFI 36-2805.  An award plaque engraved with  the recipient’s name and award year is displayed at the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of the  Air  Force,  International  Affairs  (SAF/IA),  1080  Air  Force  Pentagon,  Washington,  DC  20330-1080. 10.  Presentation of Award. 10.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force presents the award. 10.2.  The nominating unit commander may authorize the award winner to attend the award ceremony  at  government  expense.    An  award  recipient’s  spouse  or  another  family  member may  be  authorized  to  accompany  the  award  winner  to  the  AF  award  ceremony.    The nominating  unit  is  responsible  for  per  diem  and  other  travel  and  transportation  costs associated  with  attendance  by  the  award  winner  and  spouse  or  family  member.    Only transportation  costs  for  the  award  recipient  and  spouse  or  family  member  to  travel  to  and from the award ceremony is authorized at government expense.  Guidance contained in AFI 24-101,  Passenger  Movement,  and  the  Joint  Federal  Travel  Regulations/Joint  Travel Regulations  (JFTR/JTR),  Appendix  E,  for  Invitational  Travel  Authorization  for  spouses applies.    Policy  for  attending  award  ceremonies  does  not  extend  to  the  award  winner’s supervisors,  managers,  commanders,  or  any  other  members  of  the  award  winner’s  unit.  Exceptions to this rule may apply only if a requirement exists for members, other than those authorized  above,  to  participate  in  the  event  in  an  official  capacity.    Attendance  in  a supporting role does not constitute official participation. 11.  Information Collection and Records. 11.1.  Information Collections.  No information collections are created by this publication.  GABRIEL O. CAMARILLO  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 6 AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 26 April 2016 AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 19 Oct 2012, Incorporating Change 1, 4 December 2014 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 Jan 2015 AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 25 June 2015 AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 14 Mar 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, Incorporating Change 1, 28 January 2015, Certified Current 9 April 2015 AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 AF RDS, https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual ANG—Air National Guard AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency HAF—Headquarters Air Force HQ—Headquarters IAPR—SAF/IA Programming and Resources Division IAW—In accordance with JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation JTR—Joint Travel Regulation MAJCOM—Major Command AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 7 RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF—Secretary of the Air Force SAF/IA—Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs USAF—United States Air Force  8 AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 Attachment 2 SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS Figure A2.1.  6-Step Submission Instructions.   AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 9 Attachment 3 PUBLIC RELEASE STATEMENT Figure A3.1.  Sample Public Release Statement.   10 AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 Attachment 4 SUBMISSION COVER PAGE Figure A4.1.  Cover Page Template.  AFI36-2871  10 JUNE 2016 11 Attachment 5 SUBMISSION ENDORSEMENT LETTER Figure A5.1.  Endorsement Letter Template.  