 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE  AIR FORCE MANUAL 10-2502 25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Certified Current, 26 September 2011Operations AIR FORCE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (AFIMS) STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   HQ AFCESA/CEXR Certified by: HQ USAF/A7C (Brig Gen Timothy A. Byers) Pages:   82      This  manual  implements  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  10-2,  Readiness;  AFPD  10-25, Emergency  Management;  and  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  10-2501,  Air  Force  Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations.  It also aligns the Air Force Emergency Management Program with Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5 (HSPD-5), the National Incident  Management  System  (NIMS),  and  the  National  Response  Framework  (NRF).    This manual supplements the Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) based on the NIMS methodology  and  aligns  Air  Force  EM  planning  and  response  with  the  NRF  as  directed  by HSPD-5.    It  also  establishes  responsibilities,  procedures  and  standards  for  prevention, preparedness,  response,  recovery,  and  mitigation  resulting  from  major  accidents,  natural disasters,  contingency/wartime  and  irregular  enemy  attacks  with  Chemical,  Biological, Radiological,  Nuclear,  and  High-Yield  Explosive  (CBRNE)  weapons  within  the  Continental United  States  (CONUS)  and  Outside  the  Continental  United  States  (OCONUS).   This publication applies to Active Duty, Air Force Reserve Command, and Air National Guard units.  Consult cited policy directives, instructions, manuals, and their supplements for specific policies, procedures,  and  requirements.    Send  recommended  changes  and  major  command  (MAJCOM) supplements  to  this  publication  to  Headquarters  (HQ)  AFCESA/CEXR,  139  Barnes  Drive, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-5319.  Use Air Force  (AF) Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication  for  recommended  changes.    Ensure  all  records created  because  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of IAW the Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  at  https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. 2   AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Chapter 1—OVERVIEW AND POLICY    Overview.   ...............................................................................................................  Purpose.  ..................................................................................................................  National Policies.   ...................................................................................................  1.1. 1.2. 1.3. Chapter 2—AIR FORCE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (AFIMS)   Chapter 4—RESPONSE AND RECOVERY   4.1. Table  4.1. 4.2. Table  4.2. Figure  4.1. Table  4.3. Figure  4.2. 4.3.  Overarching Response and Recovery Principles.   ..................................................  Examples of Response Actions.   .............................................................................  Use of IAP.   ............................................................................................................  Recommended ICS Forms   .....................................................................................  Primary Phases of IAP Development.   ...................................................................  Sample IAP Outline.   ..............................................................................................  Use of Installation Planning Documents to Form IAP.   .........................................  Support.   ..................................................................................................................  2.1. 2.2. 2.3. Table  2.1. Table  2.2. 2.4. Table  2.3. 2.5. 3.1. 3.2. 3.3. 3.4. 3.5. Table  3.1. 3.6. 3.7.  Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS).   ...............................................  Incident Command System (ICS).   .........................................................................  The Disaster Response Force (DRF) Structure, Installation Level.   .......................  DRF Elements.   .......................................................................................................  ECC Capabilities.   ...................................................................................................  Interoperability.   ......................................................................................................  Samples of NIMS Terminology.   ............................................................................  Integrated Operations.   ............................................................................................   Analysis and Vulnerability Assessment Process.   ..................................................  AFIMS Planning.   ...................................................................................................  Capabilities-Based Planning.   .................................................................................  Crisis Action Planning.   ..........................................................................................  Interaction and Integration of Installation Plans.   ...................................................  Plans Related to CEMP 10-2.   ................................................................................  Interaction and Integration of Other Plans.   ............................................................  Training and Exercises.   ..........................................................................................  Chapter 3—PREVENTION AND PREPAREDNESS   4 4 4 4 9 9 10 10 10 12 14 15 16 18 18 18 18 19 19 19 20 21 22 22 23 24 24 24 25 26 26 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Figure  4.3. 4.4. 4.5. Figure  4.4. Request for Forces Process.   ...................................................................................  AFIMS Response and Recovery Challenges.   ........................................................  Lessons Learned and After-Action Reporting.   ......................................................  Air Force Lessons Learned Process.   ......................................................................  Chapter 5—INFORMATION COLLECTION, RECORDS, AND FORMS    Information Collections.   ........................................................................................  Records.   .................................................................................................................  Prescribed and Adopted Forms.   .............................................................................  5.1. 5.2. 5.3. Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS)   Attachment 3—AIR FORCE EMERGENCY SUPPORT FUNCTIONS (ESF)      3 27 28 28 30 31 31 31 31 32 48 70 Attachment 4—COMMAND AND CONTROL ELEMENTS FOR INCIDENT MANAGEMENT  78 Attachment 5—INCIDENT TYPES     80 4 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Chapter 1 OVERVIEW AND POLICY 1.1.  Overview.  Since  September  11,  2001,  there  have  been  sweeping  changes  to  emergency response procedures and operations.  The impetus for this manual comes from the following new guidance  HSPD–5,  Management  of  Domestic  Incidents,  the  National  Response  Framework (NRF), and the Assistant Secretary of Defense (SecDef), Homeland Defense (26 January 2004) memorandum, which mandates that both of the aforementioned publications be integrated into Department  of  Defense  (DOD)  existing  incident  management  and  emergency  response  plans.  Procedures for detailed planning, organization, training, and response and recovery information are in AFMAN 10-2503, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive Operations  and  AFMAN  10-2504,  Air  Force  Incident  Management  Guidance  for  Major Accidents and Natural Disasters. 1.2.  Purpose.  This  manual  implements  AFPD  10-2,  Readiness;  AFPD  10-25,  Emergency Management,  and  AFI  10-2501,  Air  Force  Emergency  Management  (EM)  Program  Planning and  Operations.   This  manual  provides  higher  headquarters  (HHQs),  installations,  and  unit commanders  with  EM  program  guidance,  including  the  structure  and  responsibilities  of  the AFIMS. 1.3.  National  Policies.  The following are national policies related to disaster and contingency situations in which the AFIMS will be used. 1.3.1.  Robert  T.  Stafford  Disaster  Relief  and  Emergency  Assistance  Act,  Title  42  United States Code, Section 5121 (hereafter referred to as the Stafford Act).  The Stafford Act is a 1988  amended  version  of  the  Disaster  Relief  Act  of  1974.    The  Stafford  Act  provides  an orderly and continuing means for supplemental assistance to state and local governments in their  responsibilities  to alleviate  the  suffering  and  damage  that  result  from  major  disasters and emergencies.  Upon declaring a major disaster or emergency, the President may direct any agency of the Federal government, including DOD, to undertake missions and tasks to support State and local agencies. 1.3.2.  Homeland Security Act of 2002.  The Homeland Security Act of 2002 established the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).  The act also cited the Stafford Act and stated that the President has broad powers that may be invoked in the event of domestic emergencies, including  an  attack  against  the  nation  using  weapons  of  mass  destruction  (WMD).    The President is specifically authorized to use the Armed Forces to help restore public order, but stated  that  the  Office  of  Homeland  Security  cannot  engage  in  warfighting,  the  military defense of the United States, or other military activities.  The Homeland Security Act does not limit the existing authority of the DOD. 1.3.3.  HSPD-5 Policies,  Management  of  Domestic Incidents.  HSPD-5 requires the Federal government to establish a single, comprehensive approach to domestic incident management.  It also requires the DHS to coordinate with other Federal departments and agencies and State, local, and tribal governments to establish a NRF and a NIMS. 1.3.4.  HSPD-8 Policy, National Preparedness.  HSPD-8, which is a companion to HSPD-5, established  policies  to  strengthen  the  preparedness  of  the  United  States  to  prevent  and AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 5 respond  to  threats  and  actual  domestic  terrorist  attacks,  major  disasters,  and  other emergencies. 1.3.5.  NRF  Policy.    HSPD-5  directs  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security  to  develop  and administer  a  NRF  to  integrate  Federal  domestic  prevention,  preparedness,  response  and recovery plans into a single, all-discipline, all-hazards plan.  The NRF attempts to prevent terrorist attacks within the United States; reduce America's vulnerability to terrorism, major disasters, and other emergencies; and minimize the damage and recovery from attacks, major disasters, and other emergencies.  The NRF describes the policies, planning assumptions and operational concepts that guide Federal operations following a presidential declaration of a major  disaster  or  emergency.    Like  the  NIMS,  the  NRF  incorporates  best  practices  and procedures from various disciplines and integrates them into a unified coordinating structure.  The  NRF  distinguishes  between  large-scale  events  that  require  DHS  coordination  and  the majority  of  incidents  occurring  each  year  that  are  handled  by  responsible  jurisdictions  or agencies through other established authorities or existing plans.  This framework applies to all  Federal  departments  and  agencies  that  may  provide  assistance  or  conduct  operations  if tasked. 1.3.6.  NIMS.  The NIMS provides a nationwide template that enables Federal, State, local, tribal  governments,  private  sector  and  nongovernmental  organizations  (NGO)  to  work together  effectively  and  efficiently  to  prevent,  prepare  for,  respond  to,  and  recover  from domestic incidents regardless of cause, size, or complexity.  Six major components comprise this  system’s  approach.    The  concepts  and  practices  introduce  many  concepts  and requirements  that  are  integral  to  the  NIMS.    The  six  components  are  Command  and Management,  Preparedness,  Resource  Management,  Communications  and  Information Management, Supporting Technologies, and Ongoing Management and Maintenance. 1.3.7.  DOD  Policy.    The  following  are  DOD  policies  related  to  disaster  and  contingency situations in which AFIMS will be used.  This Installation  Emergency  Management  Program. 1.3.7.1.  DODI  6055.17, Instruction,  under  the  authority  of  DoD  Directive  (DoDD)  5134.01,  establishes  policy, assigns  responsibilities,  and  prescribes  procedures  for  developing,  implementing,  and sustaining IEM programs at DoD installations worldwide for ―all hazards‖.  Establishes the  goals  of  the  DoD  IEM  Program  to  prepare  DoD  installations  for  emergencies,  to respond  appropriately  to  protect  personnel  and  save  lives,  and  to  recover  and  restore operations  after  an  emergency.    In  addition,  it  aligns  DoD  emergency  management activities  with  the  National  Incident  Management  System,  the  National  Preparedness Guidelines, and the National Response Framework.  Finally, the instruction establishes the DoD EM Steering Group. 1.3.7.2.  DOD  3150.8-M,  Nuclear  Weapons  Accident  Response  Procedures  (NARP) Manual.  This manual provides a concept of operations (CONOPS) as well as functional information  necessary  to  execute  a  comprehensive  and  unified  response  to  a  nuclear weapon  accident.    It  provides  information  for  planners  and  response  elements  to understand  the  overall  response  concept  and  roles  the  DOD  and  the  Department  of Energy (DOE)/National Nuclear Security Administration assume as both Federal agency and as a coordinating or cooperating agency under the NRF.  Although the NRF states that  the  agency  having  custody  of  the  weapon  at  the  time  of  the  incident  is  the 6 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 cooperating  agency  and  hence,  responsible  for  managing  the  response,  the  DOD  and DOE have a policy of working these incidents as a full partnership, regardless of custody.  This policy is outlined in both the NARP and the DOE equivalent manual, the Nuclear Weapon Accident Program Plan. 1.3.7.3.  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DODI)  2000.16,  DOD  Antiterrorism  (AT) Standards.  This instruction establishes responsibilities and guidance for  the  DOD  and integrates security precautions and defensive measures. 1.3.7.4.  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DODD)  3020.36,  Assignment  of  National Security  Emergency  Preparedness  (NSEP)  Responsibilities  to  DOD  Components.  Each DOD  component  shall  share  the  general  responsibilities  for  emergency  preparedness, mobilization planning, and crisis management in ensuring the continuity of government in any national security or domestic emergency. 1.3.7.5.  DODD  3025.15,  Military  Assistance  to  Civil  Authorities.    This  directive establishes  a  single  system  for  military  support  to  civil  authorities.    The  DOD components shall plan for, and respond to, requests from civil government agencies for military  support  in  dealing  with  the  actual  or  anticipated  consequences  of  civil emergencies  or  attacks  including  national  security  emergencies  that  require  a  Federal response. 1.3.7.6.  DODI 2000.18,  DOD  Installation  Chemical,  Biological,  Radiological,  Nuclear and  High-Yield  Explosive  Emergency  Response  Guidelines.    This  instruction  provides emergency  response  guidelines, implements  policy,  assigns  responsibilities,  and prescribes  procedures  to  establish  and  implement  a  program  for  a  worldwide  DOD installation emergency response to manage the consequences of a CBRNE incident. 1.3.7.7.  DODI  2000.21,  Foreign  Consequence  Management  (FCM).    This  Instruction establishes  policy  and  assigns  responsibilities  under  National  Security  Presidential Directive (NSPD) 9 ―Defeating the Terrorist Threat to the United States,‖ October 25, 2001,  for  DOD  support  to  U.S.  Government  (USG)  FCM  operations  in  response  to  a foreign CBRNE incident. 1.3.7.8.  DODI  4000.19,  Interservice  and  Intragovernmental  Support.    This  instruction implements  policy  and  updates  responsibilities  and  procedures  for  interservice  and intragovernmental  support  (e.g.  agreements  between  United  States  Federal  government activities). 1.3.8.  Department of State (DOS) Policy.  The DOS has primary responsibility to protect US citizens  and  interests  abroad.    To  fulfill  this  responsibility,  DOS  maintains  international coordination responsibilities for prevention, preparedness, and response and recovery actions relating  to  OCONUS  incidents.    The  DOS  Bureau  of  Political-Military  Affairs  is  the principal link between the DOS and DOD.  The DOS Bureau provides policy direction in the areas of international security, security assistance, military operations, defense strategy and policy, military use of space, and defense trade. 1.3.8.1.  DOS Policy for DOD in Overseas Areas.  The DOS is the lead Federal agency for the USG Foreign Consequence Management operations, unless otherwise directed by the President.  Host nation (HN) requests for assistance and/or USG offers of assistance will be made through the DOS.  The DOD recognizes that it may be directed to act as the AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 7 Federal  agency  for  USG  FCM  operations  by  the  President.    The  HN  government  has primary  responsibility  for  responding  to,  managing,  and  mitigating  the  effects  of  a foreign  CBRNE  incident.    When  requested  by  the  DOS  and  approved  by  the  SecDef, DOD shall support the DOS in FCM operations. 1.3.9.  Combatant  Command  Policy.    The  unified  command  (UC)  structure  is  flexible  and changes  as  required  to  accommodate  evolving  US  national  security  needs.    The  UC  Plan establishes  the  combatant  commands,  identifies  geographic  areas  of  responsibility  (AOR), assigns  primary  tasks,  defines  authority  of  the  commanders,  establishes  command relationships,  and  gives  guidance regarding the  exercise of  the  combatant command.   It is approved  by  the  President,  published  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  and addressed to the commanders of combatant commands. 1.3.9.1.  There  are  ten  existing  combatant  commands  with  United  States  Northern Command  (USNORTHCOM)  being  the  focal  point  for  CONUS  operations.    The remaining  combatant  commands  will  provide  specific  policy  based  upon  mission  and OCONUS location and AOR. 1.3.9.1.1.  USNORTHCOM was established as a new combatant command assigned to conduct operations to deter, prevent, and defeat threats and aggression aimed at the United States, its territories, and interests within the assigned AOR.  As directed by the  President  or  SecDef,  USNORTHCOM  will  provide  Defense  Support  of  Civil Authorities (DSCA), including consequence management (CM) operations. 1.3.9.1.2.  Air  Forces  Northern  (AFNORTH).    First  Air  Force  (1AF)  serves  as  the AFNORTH component to USNORTHCOM.  AFNORTH determines and directs all Air  Force  support the USNORTHCOM  AOR.    1AF  conducts  air  component  planning,  execution,  and assessment  of  the  full  spectrum  of  air  and  space  power  required  to  support USNORTHCOM  air  and  civil  support  missions,  with  the  exception  of  force protection  (FP).    AFNORTH/A7S  is  the  Air  Force  office  of  primary  responsibility (OPR) for AFNORTH FP. incident  management  within related to  domestic 1.3.10.  Air  Forces  National  Security  Emergency  Preparedness  Directorate  (AFNSEP).  AFNSEP  serves  as  the  Air  Force  principle  planning  agency  for  all  aspects  of  Air  Force DSCA.   AFNSEP  facilitates  domestic  support  to  civil  authorities  for  national  security emergencies and critical events of national interest.  AFNSEP also manages the Emergency Preparedness  Liaison  Officer  (EPLO)  program  to  provide  senior  Reserve  officers  who represent  AFNSEP  to  the  Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency  (FEMA).    EPLO personnel augment staffs to provide civil-military planning and emergency liaison duties. 1.3.11.  Air Force Policy. 1.3.11.1.  AFDD 2-10, Homeland Operations.  This AFDD focuses on how the Air Force supports civilian agencies through the appropriate combatant commander in a variety of operations,  such  as  neutralizing  terrorist  threats,  responding  to  natural  disasters,  and supporting the traditional mission of homeland defense. 1.3.11.2.  AFPD  10-25,  Emergency  Management.   This  policy  directive  establishes  the requirement for a single integrated Air Force EM program addressing the full spectrum of physical risks, threats, and passive defense measures.  The EM program is designed to 8 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 protect  Air  Force  personnel  and  operational  resources  across  the  full  range  of  military operations. 1.3.11.3.  AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations.    The  Air  Force  EM  program  provides  the  Air  Force  with  an  incident management  system  that  is  consistent  with  the  single,  comprehensive  approach  to incident  management  complying  with  Presidential  directives;  it  is  equally  effective  for use in wartime. 1.3.11.4.  AFI  10-2604,  Disease  Containment  Planning  Guidance.    This  instruction provides  policy  and  guidance  for  disease  containment  planning,  outlines  roles  and responsibilities, and discusses planning considerations, including the basic assumptions that  must  be  considered  in  order  to  understand  the  unique  aspects  of  negating  or mitigating the effects of enemy attacks involving biological agents or naturally occurring disease outbreaks. 1.3.11.5.  Air  Force  Policy  to  29  Code  of  Federal  Regulation  (CFR)  1910.120. Occupational Safety and Health Standards, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response.    Air  Force  policy  concerning  29  CFR  1910.120,  requires  the  Air  Force  to conduct  emergency  hazardous  materials  (HAZMAT)  operations  without  regard  to location; perform post emergency operations, site cleanup and remediation; and comply with training and certification requirements. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 9 Chapter 2 AIR FORCE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (AFIMS) 2.1.  Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS).  The AFIMS was developed to ensure service  compliance  and  consistency  with  Presidential,  DOD,  and  Air  Force  directives  for  all-hazards emergency prevention, preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation operations.  The objective is to implement a single incident management system for command and control (C2) of emergency  response  forces  at  Air  Force  installations  and  headquarters  worldwide.    AFIMS  is used  to  organize  and  direct  emergency  response  forces  during  incident  management  activities while conducting peacetime and wartime operations. 2.1.1.  Tenets  of  AFIMS.    AFIMS  provides  the  Air  Force  with  an  incident  management system that is consistent with the single, comprehensive approach to incident management.  AFIMS  provides  the  Air  Force  with  the  coordinating  structures,  processes,  and  protocols required  to  integrate  its  specific  authorities  into  the  collective  framework  of  Federal departments  and  agencies  for  action  to  include  mitigation,  prevention,  preparedness, response, and recovery activities.  It includes a core set of concepts, principles, terminology, and  technologies  covering  the  incident  command  system,  emergency  operations  centers (EOCs), identification and management of resources, qualification and certification, and the collection,  tracking  and  reporting  of  incident  information  and  incident  resources.   Finally, Communications  and  Information  Management,  Supporting  Technologies,  and  Ongoing Management  and  Maintenance  are  successfully  applied  by  integrating  existing  Air  Force resources rather than establishing new requirements in this manual.  Headquarters Air Force, A7CX coordinates with other Air Staff functions to complete the AFIMS. 2.1.2.  Phases  of  Incident  Management.    AFIMS  phases  of  incident  management  include prevention, preparation, response, recovery, and mitigation. 2.1.2.1.  Prevention includes broad categories of activities such as intelligence collection and analysis, active defense, proliferation prevention, fire prevention, disease prevention, and contamination prevention. 2.1.2.2.  Preparedness  includes  actions  such  as  planning,  training,  and  exercises.  Developing  installation  response  plans,  conducting  base  populace  training,  and conducting major accident response exercises are all considered preparedness actions. 2.1.2.3.  Response  includes  actions  to  respond  to  an  incident  which  could  include deploying  the  Disaster  Response  Force  (DRF),  implementing  response  plans  and checklists, and initiating the installation notification and warning system. 2.1.2.4.  Recovery treatment, unexploded  ordnance  (UXO)  safing,  personnel  and  resource  decontamination,  airfield damage, repair and facility restoration.  Recovery planning and actions begin as soon as possible to ensure sustainment of crucial missions and restoration of normal operations. 2.1.2.5.  Mitigation  is  an  ongoing  process  and  is  considered,  to  some  degree,  a  part  of every phase of incident management.  In a global sense, mitigation includes all activities designed  to  reduce  or  eliminate  risks  to  persons  or  property  or  to  lessen  the  actual  or potential effects or consequences of an incident. includes  operations  such  as implementing  casualty 10 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 2.2.  Incident Command System  (ICS).  The ICS is the model tool for command, control, and coordination of a response and provides a means to coordinate the efforts of individual agencies as  they  work  toward  the  common  goal  of  stabilizing  the  incident,  continuing  critical  mission operations,  and  protecting  life,  property,  and  the  environment.    ICS  uses  principles  that  have been proven to improve efficiency and effectiveness in a business setting  and used by civilian response agencies for several years.  It provides a flexible and effective response structure, which includes  resources  that  can  be  expanded  or  reduced  based  on  the  size  of  the  incident.  Attachment 2, provides a detailed description of the incident command system. 2.3.  The  Disaster  Response  Force  (DRF)  Structure,  Installation  Level.  The  DRF  is  the Installation structure for response and includes the entities listed in Table 2.1.  Training for DRF personnel is listed in AFI 10-2501.  Attachment 4 provides the visual representation of the DRF incident management C2. Table 2.1.  DRF Elements. Crisis Action Team (CAT) Emergency Communications Center (ECC)/Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Emergency Support Functions (ESF) Recovery Operations Chief Unit Control Centers (UCCs) Incident Commander (IC) First Responders Emergency Responders Specialized Teams Senior Military Representative  2.3.1.  CAT.  The CAT is an organization capable of devoting full-time attention to how the crisis affects mission execution and is composed of pre-designated personnel, with possible representation from outside agencies as needed.  The CAT is scalable and tailorable at the discretion of the commander based on the situation.  It is intended to focus on the mission execution  and  not  the  management  of  the  incident.    For  extended  operations,  the  CAT's planning  and  execution  functions  transition  to  the  normal  planning  sections  (current operations, future operations, and plans). 2.3.2.  EOC.  An EOC is the focal point of support operations for the IC and those responders at  the  incident  site.    The  EOC  is  the  location  where  the  coordination  of  information  and resources in support of the incident takes place.  The EOC is located in a permanent facility within the installation; however, the EOC may be a temporary facility used during large or complex incidents that require relocation from the primary location. 2.3.2.1.  EOC  Activation.    The  EOC  is  activated  by  the  Installation  Commander.    The EOC updates the CAT with incident status reports.  When on-scene requirements surpass the  installation’s  inherent  capabilities  and  the  installation’s  cumulative  capabilities acquired through Mutual Aid Agreements (MAAs), the EOC seeks support through the CAT.  The EOC is comprised of 15 ESFs and other functional agency representation as needed.  Depending on the complexity and size of an event, the EOC may be activated to manage  the  operations  needed  to  support  contingencies.    The  EOC  may  be  collocated with  the  CAT  to  facilitate  situational  awareness  and  incident  management  support activities  for  the  installation  leadership.    The  EOC  coordinates  with  the  IC,  civilian EOCs,  Deployment  Control  Center,  Explosive  Ordnance  Disposal  (EOD),  Fire Emergency Services (FES), Communications Centers, Medical Services, BDOC, and the AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 11 ECC.  Additionally, the EOC coordinates with the  CBRNE Control Center.  The EOC also  processes  information  from  group-  or  squadron-level  UCCs,  coordinates  response activities, and keeps the CAT informed of base status changes. 2.3.2.1.1.  Initial  Activation.    It  is  not  always  necessary  to  activate  the  full  and complete EOC.  During event planning or pre-designated threat warning (increased FPCONs, HURCONs, etc.) the EOC may be placed in a ―warm‖ status.  During small incident, a few ESFs may be needed, thus requiring only a partial activation.  During large or major incidents and subsequent recovery, a full activation may be necessary.  The IC, EOC Director, and Installation Commander determine the level of activation for EOCs. 2.3.2.1.2.  Warm status.  Simply stated warm status of the EOC means that the lights, computers, communication and other key components are turned on in preparation for a higher level of activity.  During warm status, the EOC manager will run any pre-activation or startup checklists. 2.3.2.1.3.  Partial Activation.  Partial activation requires only certain ESFs recalled to support responders at an incident.  There are two ways to conduct a partial activation.  Recall  the  entire  EOC  and  all  ESFs,  provide  a  situation  briefing  and  then  release ESFs that are not needed or notify only the necessary ESFs. 2.3.2.1.4.  Full  Activation.    Full  activation  is  the  recalling  all  the  members  of  the EOC, all ESF offices of primary responsibility (OPR), and supporting participants.  A large or major incident  and their subsequent recoveries require the full  EOC.  Full activation may be followed by a situation briefing and a shift to partial activation. 2.3.2.2.  EOC  Director.    The  EOC  director  provides  oversight  for  the  installation commander  to  support  and  control  emergency  or  contingency  incidents.    The  EOC director can support multiple ICs simultaneously, while providing strategic senior officer-level C2 for sustained response and recovery operations.  The EOC director is the senior representative  designated  by  the  installation  commander.    The  EOC  director  is responsible for directing the 15 Emergency Support Functions (ESFs).  In addition, the EOC director provides the incident commander through the ESFs all the support required to  control  the  incident,  restore  mission  capabilities,  and  sustain  response  and  recovery activities.  The EOC director is  the senior  representative designated by  the installation commander.  It is recommended that the EOC director position be filled by one of the following:  Mission  Support  Group  (MSG)  commander,  deputy  MSG,  Base  Civil Engineer (BCE) or deputy BCE. 2.3.2.3.  EOC  Manager.    The  installation  commander  appoints  the  Readiness  and  EM officer  or  Superintendent  as  the  EOC  manager  per  AFI  10-2501.    The  EOC  manager works for the EOC director by providing support and functional expertise for emergency C2 of military resources through the ESFs.  The EOC manager will stand up the EOC when directed and oversee the EOC operations.  Collect information about the incident and provide the EOC director updates.  See AFMAN 10-2507, Readiness and Emergency Management Flight Operations, for additional EOC manager roles and responsibilities. 2.3.3.  ESFs.  The ESFs as identified in AFI 10-2501, provide the structure for coordinating installation strategic interagency support during all phases of incident management for major 12 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 accidents,  natural  disasters  (to  include  natural  outbreaks  of  disease  such  as  pandemic influenza), CBRN attacks, and terrorist use of CBRNE materials.  The ESF structure includes mechanisms used to provide support to the installation and, if required, to local, State, and Federal  agencies/governments.    The  type  and  scope  of  the  event  will  determine  the magnitude, and timing of the support provided by each ESF.  ESF responsibilities are defined in Attachment 3. 2.3.4.  ECC.  The ECC encompasses the independent fire, security forces (SF), and medical dispatch/control  centers.    ECC  operations  address  the  initial  incident  notification  and response action responsibilities of those three disciplinary areas.  The ECC is the centralized 24  hours,  7  days  a  week,  365  days  a  year  emergency  communications  control  center responsible  for  receiving  initial  incident  notification,  dispatching  prescribed  initial  tactical response  forces,  initiating  emergency  operation  plan  protocols  IAW  installation  directives, informing leadership of the situation, and maintaining C2 with forces. 2.3.4.1.  The ECC controllers and on duty SF leadership acts as the day-to-day BDOC, and based on the threat will expand to a fully operational BDOC.  The operational BDOC with  embedded  ECC,  acts  as  the  installation  commander’s  C2  center  for  Integrated Defense.  The BDOC serves as the focal point for base security and defense C2.  It plans, directs,  integrates,  coordinates,  and  controls  all  base  defense  efforts.    In  addition,  the BDOC coordinates and integrates area security operations with other operations centers.  The overall command and control elements are shown in attachment 4. 2.3.4.2.  ECC  Necessary  Capabilities.    The  ECC  enabling  capabilities  concept  requires the ECC to have the ability to provide continuous, uninterrupted receipt and processing of emergency  calls,  to  dispatch  sufficient  resources  to  mitigate  the  emergency,  and  to provide the required follow-on communications related to the situation, all while meeting the requirements of public law, national consensus standards, and AFIs.  The subsequent capabilities are defined in Table 2.2 Table 2.2.  ECC Capabilities. Receive an emergency notification whether delivered by phone, alarm, radio or in person. Rapidly identify and dispatch the appropriate resources required for initial response. In the case of an emergency medical call, identify and provide emergency medical dispatch and pre-arrival instructions as required. Dispatch the appropriate follow-on resources. Maintain contact with responding forces, ensuring follow-on communications are prioritized and processed. Prioritize processes in the event of multiple incidents requiring attention (e.g. emergency and administrative phones are ringing simultaneously, non-emergency radio traffic vs. emergency-related radio traffic). Maintain capability for routine, non-event monitoring/response during other emergency responses. Maintain a log of events and update required information systems to facilitate the installation common operational picture (COP), providing this capability without regard to the type of emergency (e.g. medical, fire, or security). AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 13 Communicate with mutual aid resources if required including local, State, Federal, host-nation or sister Services utilizing the ICS construct and available resources (e.g. EOC, CAT, Air Force Office of Special Investigations [AFOSI], etc.).  Provide situational awareness to the EOC and CAT as required for installation C2 functions. Upon appropriate approval, provide situational awareness information to off base agencies. Provide initial UCC capability for first responders. Perform initial incident management functions to include plotting cordons, directing patrols, running checklists, establishing safe routes of travel, etc. Maintain non-emergency response/dispatch control, as required. Initiate incident response recalls as directed by leadership or established policy. 2.3.4.3.  Concept  of  ECC  Operations.    All  911  emergency  calls  originating  on  the installation will be directed through selective routing to the ECC for emergency response action.  Fire alarm panel and Security Forces Resource Protection alarm systems shall be monitored by the ECC controllers.  Requests for initial incident mutual aid response from local,  State  and  Federal  agencies  may  be  routed  through  the  ECC.    However,  these requests must be coordinated for approval up through the chain of command as soon as practical. 2.3.4.4.  For  additional  information  regarding  ECC  functions/capabilities,  refer  to  the A7CXR ECC Enabling CONOPS. 2.3.5.  UCC.    UCCs  serve  as  a  commander’s  communications  conduit  to  each  individual assigned to an organization and provide a single point of contact for resources requested from the  IC  via  the  ECC  or  EOC.    UCCs  relay  emergency  information  within  the  chain  of command regarding major accidents, natural disasters, and enemy attacks.  They also direct, monitor, and report mitigation and preparedness activities, and maintain unit continuity for C2.    UCCs  support  the  IC  and  EOC  by  providing  subject-matter-experts  (SMEs)  and resources. 2.3.5.1.  Control centers vary depending on the resources, capabilities, and mission of a respective group or squadron on the installation.  As a minimum, UCCs are required for the elements comprising the DRF.  UCCs will also: 2.3.5.1.1.  Provide a focal point within an organization to monitor unit resources and mission  capability  and  to  coordinate  their  activities  during  major  accident,  natural disaster, and enemy attack response operations. 2.3.5.1.2.  Maintain unit checklists for response to major accidents, natural disasters, and enemy attacks; maps; communications equipment; alternate control centers; and recall rosters for assigned DRF elements. 2.3.5.1.3.  Operate continuously during contingency response operations. 2.3.5.1.4.  Alert, recall, deploy, and supervise organizational DRF elements. 2.3.5.1.5.  Disseminate  threat  and  emergency  action  information,  incident  cordon evacuation instructions, protective measures, and other emergency information to all organizational elements. 14 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 2.3.5.1.6.  Evaluate and report damage, casualties, and mission capability. 2.3.5.1.7.  Maintain  a  log  of  events  to  document  incident/contingency  support activities. 2.3.5.1.8.  Collect and report personnel accountability information IAW AFI 10-218, Personnel  Accountability  In  Conjunction  With  Natural  Disasters  Or  National Emergencies. 2.3.6.  Senior  Military  Representative.    The  installation  commander  or  EOC  Director  can dispatch to, or the incident commander can request a senior military representative (SMR) at the incident site.  The SMRs’ primary purpose is to liaison with media and outside agencies during high visibility incidents or to support the incident commander.  A SMR is not required at a vast majority of incidents.  On scene, unless a transfer of Incident Command authority occurs, the existing IC maintains tactical control. 2.3.7.  IC.  The individual responsible for all incident activities, including the development of strategies and tactics and the ordering and release of resources.  The IC has overall authority and responsibility for conducting incident operations and is responsible for the management of all incident operations at the incident site.  The IC must be fully qualified to manage the response. 2.3.8.  First  Responders.    First  responders  are  the  FES,  EMS  and  SF  personnel  who immediately  engage  in  activities  to  save  lives,  stabilize  the  incident,  and  prevent  further property damage.   First  responders provide the installation’s Federal statutory  requirement for  immediate  response  to  all  major  accident  and  natural  disaster  emergencies  involving Federal installations, property, reservations, or operations.  During incidents, first responders proceed to the scene and secure the immediate incident area, establish ICS, provide rescue and  firefighting,  identify  and  contain  hazards,  and  provide  patient  care,  triage,  medical monitoring, transport, and decontamination procedures. 2.3.9.  Emergency Responders.  The response elements of a DRF that deploy to the accident scene  after  the  first  responders  to  expand  C2  and  perform  support  functions.    Emergency responders  include  follow-on  elements  such  as  firefighters,  SF,  and  emergency  medical technicians, as well as EM personnel, EOD personnel, physicians, nurses, medical treatment providers  at  medical treatment  facilities,  public  health  officers,  bioenvironmental engineering, and mortuary affairs personnel. 2.3.10.  Specialized  Teams.    These  teams  are  formed  from  existing  installation  and  unit personnel resources to support emergency response operations.  Emergency response support teams  that are part of the DRF include the Readiness Support Team, Shelter Management Team, Contamination Control Teams, and Post Attack Reconnaissance Teams. 2.4.  Interoperability.  The  NIMS  uses  a  systems  approach  to  integrate  the  best  existing processes  and  methods  into  a  unified  national  framework  for  incident  management.    This framework  forms  the  basis  for  interoperability  and  compatibility  among  various  preparedness agencies through a core set of concepts, principles, terminology, and technologies.  This core set includes the ICS, and the Multiagency Coordination System; UCs; training, qualifications, and certification; resource identification and management (including systems for classifying types of resources;  incident  information  collecting,  tracking,  and  reporting;  and  incident  resources collecting, tracking, and reporting).  Refer to  paragraph  2.5.1.  The AF has incorporated the AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 15 NIMS approach into AFIMS to set the framework for interoperability and compatibility among other response and preparedness agencies outside the Air Force. 2.4.1.  Interoperable  Communications  Requirements.    The  response  to  the  World  Trade Center attacks clearly illustrates the need for interoperable communications equipment and procedures as stated by the 9/11 Commissioners Report.  Rescue efforts were hampered by the  inability  of  radios  to  function  in  buildings  as  large  as  the  twin  towers.    The  task  of accounting  for  and  coordinating  the  units  was  rendered  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  by internal communications breakdowns and the lack of written standard operating procedures for  personnel  responding  from  outside  commands  to  the  World  Trade  Center.    Some responders lacked interoperable radio frequencies and the 911 emergency call systems were overwhelmed.  As a result, there was no comprehensive coordination of the overall response.  Because  of  this,  installations  will  comply  with  national  interoperable  communications standards  when  developed.    Such  standards  appropriate  for  the  emergency  responder community  will  be  designated  by  the  National  Integration  Center  (NIC).    To  ensure compliance,  review  AFI  33-108,  Compatibility,  Interoperability,  and  Integration  of Command, Control, Communications and Computer Systems. 2.4.2.  Standard Common Terminology  All entities involved in managing an incident must use common terminology for communications.  The AFIMS incorporates the NIMS, which establishes common terminology that allows diverse operational, management, and support entities to work together across a wide variety of incident management functions.  Standard common terminology is a key principle of NIMS and therefore in AFIMS, because of this, it is important to limit the unnecessary creation of terminology.  Refer to Table  2.3. and AFI 10-2501 for relevant NIMS terminology. Table 2.3.  Samples of NIMS Terminology. NIMS Term  ESF  EOC  N/A  N/A  MEOC  EOC Manager  ICS  EOP IAP Emergency Support Function  Emergency Operations Center  First Responders  Emergency Responders  Mobile Emergency Operations Center  Emergency Operations Center Manager  Incident Command System  Emergency Operations Plan Incident Action Plan 2.4.3.  Interoperability with Other Agencies.  Installations must name and define their major functions and functional units with incident management responsibilities.  Terminology for organizational  elements  involved  must  be  standard  and  consistent  with  other  services, nations,  and  civilian  agencies.    Major  resources  (including  personnel,  facilities,  and  major equipment  and  supply  items  used  to  support  incident  management  activities)  are  given common names and are ―typed‖ with respect to their capabilities to help avoid confusion and to enhance interoperability.  Interoperability and compatibility are achieved using such tools as common communications and data standards, digital data formats, equipment standards, and  design  standards.    Air  Force  response  agencies  must  work  with  other  Services  and 16 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 nations  during  joint  and  combined  operations  to  ensure  they  are  incorporated  into  AF operations and there is an understanding of how response operations will take place and how forces will integrate (see paragraph 2.5.3 and paragraph 2.5.4.) 2.5.  Integrated  Operations.  The AFIMS framework principle of integration enables seamless response  operations  between  installations  and  friendly  forces.    Air  Force  installations  may operate  with  one  or  more  non-Air  Force  entities.    In  some  instances,  modified  AFIMS procedures may be necessary because of a variety of complicating factors. 2.5.1.  UC Activities.  The UC is an important element in multi-jurisdictional or multi-agency incident  management.    It  provides  guidelines  to  enable  agencies  with  different  legal, geographic,  levels  of  government,  and  functional  responsibilities  to  coordinate,  plan,  and interact effectively.  All agencies with jurisdictional authority or functional responsibility for any  or  all  aspects  of  an  incident  and  those  able  to  provide  specific  resource  support participate in the UC structure and contribute to the process of determining overall incident strategies;  selecting  objectives;  ensuring  that  joint  planning  for  tactical  activities  are accomplished  IAW  approved  incident  objectives;  ensuring  the  integration  of  tactical operations; and approving, committing, and making optimum use of all assigned resources.  These tenets may not always be acceptable to the senior Air Force representative associated with the response.  For example, if a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) incident originates off the installation but the hazard plume affects the base, it is possible that the installation commander will choose to use operational exposure guidelines for a segment of the Air Force population, and those exposure guidelines will not match those designed for the corresponding civilian population.  Because of these and other variables, it is possible the Air Force will participate in Unified Command activities with a modified approach. 2.5.2.  Area Command Operations.  The purpose of an area command is either to oversee the management of multiple incidents that are each being handled by a separate ICS organization or to oversee the management of a very large or complex incident that has multiple incident management teams engaged.  Area command is used when there are similar incidents in the same  area.   (Refer  to  Attachment  2  for  a  more  detailed  discussion  of  area  command operations.) 2.5.2.1.  When  an  incident  occurs  on  the  base  that  requires  multiple  ICs,  an  area command  should  be  established.    The  EOC  director  should  assume  the  role  of  area command  commander.    Examples  of  when  the  EOC  director  would  establish  an  area command  would  be  during  wartime  operations  when  the  installation  is  divided  into CBRN  zones  and  incidents  occur  in  multiple  CBRN  zones.    Like  a  theater  ballistic missile  lands  in  one  zone,  a  fire  occurs  in  the  cantonment  area  of  another  zone,  an explosion  occurs  causing  multiple  casualties  and  contamination  spread  through  two zones.  Each area requires responses, competes for valuable resources, and requires the EOC director to make decisions on what resources to use to recover from an attack. 2.5.2.2.  Another  scenario  could  be  during  a  hurricane  recovery  with  many  activities going on to restore utilities, conduct damage assessments, provide first aid, clear debris, and other competing activities.  The EOC director would assume area command in order to prioritize all the competing requirements. 2.5.3.  Joint  Basing  Operations.    It  is  possible  the  Air  Force  will  be  the  host  unit  at  an installation with tenant organizations who are not familiar with AFIMS.  Conversely, it is AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 17 possible the Air Force will be the tenant organization at an installation in which the host is not  familiar  with  NIMS  or  who  has  developed  a  modified  NIMS  structure  that  does  not match AFIMS.  In the event that the Air Force is the host unit, it is imperative the Air Force ensure the tenant units are included within the AFIMS structure.  The tenant units must be made aware of their specific supporting requirements, terminology and signals that will be used  by  the  Air  Force  C2  element,  and  response  procedures.    In  instances  where  the  Air Force is  the tenant unit, Air Force senior leaders must quickly ascertain and distribute the host unit’s response procedures and terminology that will be used.  As part of the response protocol, Air Force leadership should consider placing a liaison officer in the ICP or EOC. 2.5.4.  Combined Operations.  In combined operations (military force composed of elements of two or more allied nations), the Air Force organization should use the same procedures outlined in the ―joint basing operations‖ paragraph above (e.g. quickly exchange information regarding the response structure, supported/supporting requirements, terminology that will be used, and establish a mechanism for the use of liaison officers). 2.5.5.  Information-Sharing Ground Rules.  For situations where joint operations or Unified Command operations are involved, the Joint Information Center (JIC) provides a location for organizations participating in the management of an incident to work together to ensure that timely,  accurate,  easy-to-understand,  and  consistent  information  is  disseminated  to  the public.  AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures, is the source document for Air Force interaction and participation with the JIC.  AFI 35-101 also implements the guidance found  in  DODI  5400.14,  Procedures  for  Joint  Public  Affairs  Operations.   Air  Force commanders  will  adhere  to  standard  security  practices  (Operations  Security  [OPSEC], Communications Security [COMSEC], guidelines for release of classified information, etc.) during incident responses.  While the Air Force strives to share all relevant information in a timely  manner,  the  sharing  does  not  include  classified  information  and  may  not  include details regarding critical mission operations.  However, this lack of information sharing will be the exception rather than the rule. 18 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Chapter 3 PREVENTION AND PREPAREDNESS 3.1.  Analysis and Vulnerability Assessment Process.  During the prevention phase, the use of existing vulnerability assessment methodology and operational risk management principles are essential as inputs into the prevention and preparedness phases.  Modern Air Force EM threat and  hazard  analysis  must  include  such  variables  as  the  overall  environment,  mission,  threat, demographics, required capabilities, and available infrastructure.  The impact of each of these variables can be immense given the potential threats the Air Force faces.  Therefore, it is critical that  all  of  these  variables  be  understood  and  incorporated  into  the  planning  process  as appropriate.  The outcome for a comprehensive vulnerability analysis is a list of emergency types and their corresponding probability of occurrence.  In addition, a summary is codified for each of the  impact  subcomponents  thus  painting  a  prioritized  picture,  which  enables  emphasis  to complete  the  installation  hazard  analysis.    The  statements  of  analysis  may  be  classified depending  on  the  command  classification  guidance.    All  draft  vulnerability  analysis  must  be considered living documents and are adjusted as the threat changes or the validity of the analysis is  enhanced  with  additional  information.    Therefore,  the  EM  Working  Group  (EMWG)  must regularly  work  with  the  Threat  Working  Group  (TWG)  and  Anti-terrorism  Working  Group (ATWG) to validate the vulnerability analysis.  The EM Flight uses existing information to help develop the initial structure of EM response planning as representatives of the EMWG for the analysis, but coordinates with the TWG and the ATWG for each of the subcomponents. 3.2.  AFIMS Planning.  Commanders must stress both planning and response to provide unity of effort,  allocate  resources  efficiently,  and  identify  shortfalls  early.    Force  survivability  and mission  continuation  are  the  highest  priorities  for  planning.    Plans  should  describe  how personnel, equipment, and other resources are used to support incident management, emergency response,  and  critical  military  operations.    Plans  should  incorporate  threat  assessment, vulnerability  assessment,  and  hazard  assessment  information  and  how  the  installation  would prevent,  prepare  for,  respond  to,  and  mitigate  the  items  identified  through  the  assessment process.  Additionally, during the planning process, installations must conduct capabilities-based planning. Planning.  AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements 3.3.  Capabilities-Based Development, defines a ―capability‖ as ―The ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions through combinations of means and ways to perform a set of tasks.  It is defined  by  an  operational  user  and  expressed  in  broad  operational  terms...‖    During  the prevention (deliberate and crisis planning) and preparedness phases of AFIMS, all actions and required tasks should be planned with the final sought after capability in mind.  For example, survey the installation’s capability to respond to a major accident, natural disaster, or CBRNE incident.    A  clearer  picture  of  the  problems  will  emerge  once  the  hazard  identification  and analysis portion of the planning process has been completed.  However, this is only part of the information required for effective planning.  The installation’s capability to handle or manage the hazard  must  also  be  surveyed.    It  is  crucial  to  assess  resource  identification  capabilities  and maintain constant capability.  Do you need a 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year capability?  Consider factors such as: overall resources available, condition, quantities, locations, etc.  Leaders must evaluate the level of training, knowledge, and competence of the personnel AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 19 who will be used.  Planners must determine the ability of various resources to effectively work with outside agencies.  For AFIMS, the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) 10-2  provides  the  comprehensive  guidance,  to  include  referencing  other  plans  that  are appropriate  for  the  situation,  for  responding  to  an  emergency  incident  that  may  affect  an installation or its mission. 3.4.  Crisis  Action  Planning.  In a crisis,  the time available for lengthy and detailed planning does not exist.  Planners and operators are likely to be in a ―no plan‖ situation for contingencies not anticipated by deliberate planning.  They must develop courses of action, a CONOPS, and an IAP from scratch in a compressed timeframe.  However, even though the crisis may not resemble existing operation plans in detail, there are probably aspects of one or more plans in the database that could be adapted to the situation.  Quality deliberate planning and mitigation efforts enhance the  potential  for  success  during  crises.    If  the  response  to  an  incident  has  to  be  completely developed  without  adapting  plans  or  parts  of  plans,  the  routine  process  of  developing  the CEMP10-2 in deliberate planning keeps the CAT, EOC, and response forces familiar with the procedures, policies, and installation response capabilities that assist with rapid development of IAPs. 3.5.  Interaction  and  Integration  of  Installation  Plans.  Most  locations  currently  have  plans addressing a wide range of threats for the installation and the Air Force.  The primary objective of  AFIMS  and  the  EM  response  planning  efforts  is  to  support  capabilities  through  existing installation response plans by minimizing effects caused by incidents/accidents or contingency operations.    Operational  success  relies  on  thorough,  realistic,  and  executable  response  plans, processes, and policies to mobilize, deploy, sustain, employ, and re-deploy forces.  Commanders will ensure plans provide for the continuation of critical, mission-essential services and consider environmental  standards,  operational  concerns  for  safety,  and  occupational  health  protection.  Each Air Force installation must develop installation response plans to respond to a myriad of disasters,  hazards,  and  contingencies.    Installations,  including  tenant  units,  will  tailor  their response plans to the installation’s mission, criticality considerations, and threat assessment.  The CEMP 10-2 is  supported by  a myriad of plans  and has  external factors that shape the overall plan. 3.5.1.  CEMP 10-2.  The purpose of CEMP 10-2 is to provide comprehensive guidance for responding to an emergency incident that may affect an installation or its mission.  This plan identifies procedures to be followed in the event of major accidents, natural disasters, attack actions,  and  terrorist  use  of  CBRNE  materials.   Detailed  guidance  for  CEMP  10-2 development  and  coordination  is  contained  in  AFI  10-2501.   The  CEMP  10-2  template  is located on the Air Force EM Community of Practice (CoP) on the Air Force Portal. 3.5.2.  Plans Related to CEMP 10-2.  The plans listed in  Table  3.1  provide additional EM response procedures and information. Table 3.1.  Plans Related to CEMP 10-2. Plan Antiterrorism (AT) Plan It Supports CEMP 10-2 by: Providing installation specific measures of deterrence and response to terrorism.  The AT Plan is written IAW AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism (AT) Standards.  Standard 18, Terrorist Incident Response and CM Measures, for the 20 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 CE Contingency Response Plan (CRP) Continuity of Operations (COOP) Plan  Expeditionary Site Plan Integrated Defense Plan Disease Containment Plan (DCP) Medical Contingency Response Plan (MCRP) installation are contained within the installation CEMP 10-2. Providing guidance and information to civil engineers for quick and effective response to all contingencies.  Provides lists of critical facilities and utilities to continue the installation mission. Ensuring continuity of mission-essential functions under all circumstances.  COOPs concentrate on survival and dispersal, reconstituting operational capabilities, and reestablishing command and control. AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, provides guidance on determining capabilities for contingency operations and providing a plan for EM guidance until a CEMP 10-2 can be developed. Codifies installation defense efforts among all responsible internal/external agencies to ensure all aspects of integrated defense (ID) are accomplished.  It also provides an understanding of security requirements for all units involved in ID and describes how commanders employ available ID forces, capabilities and concepts to accomplish the overall ID mission. Supports force health protection and sustainment of mission operations during disease outbreaks and biological attacks. Establishing plans for installation medical capabilities (organic and off base support) to respond to contingencies and support recovery. 3.5.3.  Mutual  Aid  Agreements  (MAAs).    MAAs  establishes  an  agreement  between  the parties and documents proof of the agreement and its contents.  In addition, MAAs identify the parties involved, identify respective responsibilities, define how and when they are to be implemented,  who  performs  what  and  how,  who  pays  for  specific  services,  how  long  the agreement  is  in  effect,  how  the  agreements  are  terminated,  and  who  administers  the agreements.  The installation commander should use MAAs to request or provide mutual aid IAW DODI 4000.19 and other guidance that governs MAAs, such as AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities.  MAA templates can be found on the Air Force Portal EM CoP. 3.6.  Interaction and Integration of Other Plans. 3.6.1.  National  Level.    At  the  national  level,  the  DHS  is  responsible  for  EM  within  the CONUS.  Normally, DHS will choose to allow the DOD, or its delegated agent (the service or  the  combatant  commander)  to  oversee  the  response  to  individual  emergencies  on  DOD installations or related DOD property.  However, per HSPD-5, the Secretary of Homeland Security is ultimately responsible.  Hence, the NRF is always in effect.  Installations should reference  the  NRF  when  devising  local  plans  and  procedures  to  ensure  consonance  with national policy.  The Joint Director of Military Support (JDOMS) is a designated general/flag grade position in the Operations Directorate of the Joint Staff.  The JDOMS is responsible for processing  requests  for  DOD  assistance  and  preparing  (develops  and  coordinates)  an execution order, if required. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 21 3.6.2.  Regional  Level.    The  geographical  combatant  commanders  are  designated  the supported  combatant  commanders  for  the  DOD  response  to  an  incident  that  occurs  within their  respective  AORs.    The  operations  center  designated  by  the  combatant  commander  is DOD’s regional coordination center.  The supported combatant commander is responsible for executing the DOD response mission and exercises operational control, as specified by the SecDef, over military forces responding to the incident. 3.6.3.  State, Local, and Tribal Coordination.  In a domestic incident, State, local, and tribal governments will normally have some form of jurisdictional authority at, or in the vicinity of, the  accident  site.    The  elected,  appointed,  or  designated  officials  of  these  governments represent both the legal authorities that are applicable and the citizens that are impacted by the accident.  State, local, and tribal governments also have the capabilities and resources of various emergency management functions; fire, police, public health, EMS, National Guard, public  works,  and  environmental  response;  that  may  be  involved  in  the  response  to  an incident.    It  is  also  likely  that  personnel  from  these  various  State,  local,  and  tribal organizations may be the first responders at an incident that occurs outside the boundaries of a United States Air Force (USAF) installation.  Therefore, to ensure a successful response, USAF officials  should establish a full partnership with neighboring  State, local, and tribal officials and responders. 3.7.  Training and Exercises. 3.7.1.  EM  Training.    EM  training  is  integral  to  the  Air  Force  EM  Program  and implementation of AFIMS at installation level.  Air Force EM training provides installation populace  and  responders  with  information,  knowledge,  and  skills  to  prepare  for,  prevent, respond to, recover from, and mitigate contingencies or emergencies.  Installations conduct EM training IAW AFI 10-2501.  This training, using the blended learning concept, includes initial  AFIMS  indoctrination  courses  to  the  actual  application  of  physical  incident management  of  major  accidents,  natural  disasters,  and  CBRNE.    EM  training  must  be realistic and include executable tasks that support the installation CEMP 10-2. 3.7.2.  Installations EM Exercise and Evaluation Program.  The intent of the EM exercise and evaluation  program  is  to  embody  the  ―train  the  way  we  fight‖  concept;  apply  real-world command  and  local  community  relationships  when  possible;  emphasize  participation,  and reduce  artificialities  (simulated  responses,  notional  forces  and  events)  to  assess  actual capabilities  and  limits  consistent  with  safety,  exercise  objectives,  security,  mission accomplishment, and other real-world constraints; and to make sure logistics, support, force protection,  and  operational  security  requirements  are  fully  integrated  with  mission requirements.    EM  exercise  scenarios  should  mirror  actual  plans,  policies,  procedures, processes,  and  doctrine  as  well  as  AFIMS.   Exercises  should  integrate  into  exercises  the transfer of command and include the recovery phase. 3.7.2.1.  Installation  commanders  are  responsible  for  their  installation’s  exercise  and evaluation  program  and  provide  oversight  for installation-sponsored  exercises, installation  participation  in  joint  and  local  community  exercises,  and  after-action reporting, when required by HHQs.  Installation commanders establish an exercise and evaluation  program  per  MAJCOM  directives  and  direct  the  actions  of  subordinate  and tenant units in exercise activities. 22 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Chapter 4 RESPONSE AND RECOVERY 4.1.  Overarching  Response  and  Recovery  Principles.  Key actions that occur in support of a response are gaining and maintaining situational awareness, activating and deploying resources and  capabilities,  and  coordinating  response  actions.    Key  principles  in  recovery  are:  assisting individuals,  providing  public  health  and  safety  services,  restoring  utilities,  reopening  roads, providing food and shelter, and mission continuation. 4.1.1.  Establish Command.  The initial first responder on scene will establish command and perform IC duties until replaced by a more competent or higher trained IC.  If the incident requires other agencies to respond to the incident, then the incident commander must have the  appropriate  training  and  experience  as  an  IC.    Individual  functional  representatives (Security  Forces  and  Medical)  may  serve  as  the  IC  for  incidents  controlled  with  organic functional resources.  For example, a single vehicle traffic accident without injuries requiring traffic  investigation  and  wrecker  services  may  be  controlled  by  Security  Forces  therefore they can serve as IC.  Another example would be a medical emergency in which no outside resources  are  required;  therefore,  Medical  (ambulance)  personnel  will  serve  as  IC.    FES personnel will serve as IC for incidents that require two or more response agencies. 4.1.2.  Response  actions  in  gaining  a  COP  and  maintaining  situational  awareness  occurs when a C2 function is notified of an incident, the response forces are notified, and the  IC arrives on-scene to gain a situational awareness.  Once the IC has assessed the situation and gathered the facts, this information will be communicated to the ECC and CAT.  At this time, the  IC  will  determine  if  additional  response  forces  from  the  DRF  are  required.    As information is gathered and the magnitude of the incident is known, higher level reporting will  have  to  be  accomplished  to  local  authorities,  MAJCOM,  and  HHQ,  IAW  operational reporting guidelines. 4.1.3.  Common Operational Picture (COP).  The principal objectives of communications and information  management  for  those  involved  in  incident  management  are  accomplished  by establishing  and  maintaining  a  COP.    The  COP  provides  the  method  to  disseminate indications  and  warnings,  make  tactical  decisions  at  an  incident  site,  formulate  strategic decisions  regarding  multi-incident  circumstances,  plan  for  requirements  and  requests  from incident management, and provide ground truth awareness and understanding of an incident.  The  Geobase  is  a  platform,  which  enables  a  common  operating  picture  capability,  and  is  the preferred  platform  for  the  Air  Force.    Various  layers  can  be  added  to  create  increased specificity in the COP. 4.1.4.  Activate  and  deploy  resources  and  capabilities  to  maintain  primary  installation mission,  save lives,  mitigate  damage  and  restore  mission-essential  resources  and infrastructure.    Across  all  levels,  initial  actions  may  include  the  activation  of  people  and teams  and  establishment  of  incident  management  and  response  structures  to  organize  and coordinate an effective response.  The resources and capabilities requested should be directly related to the size, scope, nature, and complexity of the incident.  The IC will set priorities and  develop  an  IAP.    The  IC  will  notify  the  ECC  or  CAT  with  the  recommendation  to activate the EOC, if needed.  Requests for mutual aid will be made during this phase. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 23 4.1.5.  Coordination of response actions occurs through the established response entities (e.g. first  and  emergency  responders,  ICS,  CAT,  ECC,  and  EOC)  based  on  assigned  roles  and responsibilities  and  reporting  protocols.    The  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  response operations are enhanced by the full application of the AFIMS with its common principles, structures,  and  coordinating  processes.    If  resources  are  not  adequate,  then  a  request  to implement MAAs or request for forces should be initiated.  Response actions (see Table 4.1) are based on the objectives established by the IC and/or installation commander.  First and emergency response capabilities are defined in Attachment 3 of AFMAN 10-2503, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive Operations. Table 4.1.  Examples of Response Actions. Warning the base populace. Implementing evacuation and sheltering plans. Sheltering evacuees in pre-identified shelters and providing food, water, and other necessities. Performing search and rescue. Treating the injured. Providing law enforcement. Controlling or containing hazards. Ensuring responder safety and health. Making decisions regarding sustainment, termination, relocation, or transfer of critical mission(s). 4.1.6.  Once immediate lifesaving activities and the hazards have been contained, the focus shifts to recovery operations.  Recovery activities are prioritized and documented in the IAP (see  paragraph  4.2).    Recovery  actions  are  taken  to  assist  individuals,  restore  mission operations, and restore the area or installation to normal operations.  This can be categorized as both short-term recovery and long-term recovery. 4.1.6.1.  Short-term  recovery  includes  actions  to  provide  essential  public  health  and safety services, restore utilities and critical facilities, reopen roads, and provide food and shelter.  This term or period could last for days or weeks. 4.1.6.2.  Long-term  recovery  may  include  many  of  the  actions  in  short-term  recovery except these efforts will take months or years.  This could be considered restoration of the installation. 4.1.6.3.  Once  the  emergency  is  over  and  recovery  starts.    Control  of  the  site  must  be officially transferred from the IC to another individual or organization.  This person is not referred to as an IC but called the Recovery Operations Chief.  The Recovery Operations Chief must be a subject matter expert in the hazards or activities within the incident site.  If it is a HAZMAT incident, the organization or individual that assumes control of the site  must  be  knowledgeable  of  the  hazards  and  recovery  procedures.    For  example, initiating  actions  to  contain  the  hazard  and  clean  up  the  site  to  restore  the  area  to  its condition  before  the  incident.    The  person  in  charge  of  that  work  should  have  an environmental  engineering  background  and  be  familiar  with  HAZMAT  clean-up requirements.  If it is an aircraft incident, the recovery operations chief should be familiar with that aircraft or be a member of the interim aircraft mishap investigation team.  The EOC Director should select the individual that will be in charge of the site. 24 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 4.2.  Use of IAP.  The IAP is not developed prior to an incident.  Rather, the IAP is a planning mechanism  used  throughout  an  incident  to  codify  and  distribute  the  tactical  objectives  and support activities required for one operational period, generally 12 to 24 hours.   Table  4.2 lists recommended  ICS  forms  that  can  be  used  in  developing  the  IAP.    The  ICS  forms  can  be downloaded  from  the  Emergency  Management  Community  of  Practice/F.  Publications  and Plans/ICS at: http://training.fema.gov/EMIweb/IS/ICSResource/ICSResCntr_forms.htm.   Figure  4.1 depicts the sequential primary phases that are followed to develop an IAP. Website FEMA Forms or the Table 4.2.  Recommended ICS Forms ICS Form 201, Incident Briefing ICS Form 202, Incident Objectives ICS Form 203, Organization Assignment List ICS Form 204, Assignment List ICS Form 205, Incident Radio Communications Plan ICS Form 206, Medical Plan ICS Form 207, Organizational Chart ICS Form 209, Incident Status Summary ICS Form 211, Check-In List ICS Form 213, General Message ICS Form 214, Unit Log ICS Form 215, Operational Planning Worksheet ICS Form 215a, Incident Action Plan Safety Analysis ICS Form 216, Radio Requirements Worksheet ICS Form 217, Radio Frequency Assignment Worksheet ICS Form 218, Support Vehicle Inventory ICS Form 220, Air Operations Summary ICS Form 221, Demobilization Plan Figure 4.1.  Primary Phases of IAP Development.  4.2.1.  A single person or multiple people may participate in the development of the IAP.  In small,  short-term  incidents,  the  designated  IC  may  develop  the  IAP.    In  larger  endeavors, members  of  the  EOC  and  command  and  general  staff  will  participate  in  the  IAP development.  The IC develops the incident objectives on which the incident action plan is based.    The  operations  section  chief  develops  the  strategies  and  tactics  to  accomplish  the objectives, the Plans Section Chief produces the IAP, the Logistics Section Chief identifies the logistics requirements to support the tactics, the Finance/Admin Section Chief conducts cost analyses, the IC approves the IAP and the operations section chief directs the tactical implementation of the IAP. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 25 4.2.2.  The IAP may be written or oral.  The IAP will normally be communicated verbally for simple  incidents  of  short  duration.    A  written  IAP  should  be  considered  for  the  following conditions: two or more jurisdictions are involved in the response, incident continues into a second  or  more  operational  periods,  a  large  number  of  ICS  organizational  elements  are activated,  and  a  written  IAP  will  be  accomplished  when  a  HAZMAT  or  CBRNE material/agent is involved. 4.2.3.  The IAP may consist of only a couple of  items (e.g. objectives and plan of attack).  During complex events, the IAP may consist of multiple sections, as shown in Table 4.3. Table 4.3.  Sample IAP Outline. Common Components: Incident Briefing  Incident Objectives Organization List/Chart Assignment List Communications Plan   Logistics Plan Medical Plan Incident Map Safety Plan Other Potential Components: Air Operations Summary Traffic Plan Decontamination Plan Waste Management or Disposal Plan Demobilization Plan Normally Prepared By: Incident Commander Planning Section Chief Resources Unit Resources Unit Communications Unit Resources Unit Medical Unit  Situation Unit Safety Officer  Air Operations Ground Support Unit Technical Specialist Technical Specialist Demobilization Unit 4.2.4.  Generally, the IAP is developed using situational awareness of the incident, the IC’s tactical objectives, and determined strategies that meet those objectives.  The IAP must be realistic and based on the selected strategies and tactics determined/implemented to meet the objectives.    Existing  installation  plans  such  as  the  CEMP  10-2,  MCRP,  and  Integrated Defense  Plan,  and  checklists  provide  a  baseline  for  tasks  that  must  be  completed  in responding to all- hazards incidents and should be used to develop components of the IAP when appropriate.  The recommended ICS forms listed in Table 4.2 should be integrated into existing installation plans were applicable.  The IC should provide the ―commander’s intent‖ for the next operational period, direct the Planning Section Chief to ensure everyone involved has current copies of all relevant plans, forms, and checklists and consider this compilation of materials in development of the IAP (see Figure 4.2).  The re-accomplishing, re-formatting, or  re-typing  of  existing  plans  or  checklists  is  not  required  nor  desired  in  regards  to  the development of the IAP. 4.2.5.  The IAP will be evaluated and updated at intervals specified by the IC and as required by the situation.  The IAP also contains provisions for continuous incorporation of ―lessons learned‖ as incident management activities progress. 26 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 4.2.6.  The  flexibility  and  adaptability  of  the  IAP  process  comes  to  the  forefront  during complex  response  operations  such  as  wide-spread  recovery  from  catastrophic  natural disasters  in  which  multiple  individual  events  are  being  handled  simultaneously  (e.g. firefighting,  rescue,  restoration  of  utilities,  sheltering  of  displaced  personnel,  provision  of food and  water, etc.).  Similar flexibility and adaptability techniques apply to  creating the IAP  in  the  aftermath  of  an  enemy  attack  that  results  in  multiple  hazards  that  need  to  be addressed  (e.g.  damage  to  aircraft  operating  surfaces,  facilities,  aircraft,  vehicles,  and equipment;  unexploded  ordnance;  fires;  casualties  and  fatalities;  presence  of  CBRN contamination, etc.). Figure 4.2.  Use of Installation Planning Documents to Form IAP.  4.2.7.  It  is  possible  that  the  joint  and/or  coalition  partners  an  Air  Force  unit  is  collocated with  do  not  use  or  are  not  familiar  with  NIMS  protocols  in  general  or  the  AFIMS  IAP process  in  particular.    In  these  circumstances,  the  Air  Force  organization  should  quickly exchange information regarding the response structure, supported/supporting requirements to include  development  and/or  coordination  of  portions  of  the  IAP,  if  appropriate.    The information  exchange  should  also  include  the  terminology  that  will  be  used  and  the mechanism  for  the  use  of  liaison  officers  to  resolve  issues  that  may  arise  during  IAP development or execution. 4.3.  Support. 4.3.1.  Teaming  with  Adjacent  Jurisdictions.    AF  installations  could  need  assistance  from adjacent  jurisdictions  (e.g.  municipalities,  counties,  states);  just  as  adjacent  jurisdictions could need assistance from the AF.   If possible, installations should coordinate  MAAs (or comparable memoranda) during the planning process and well before incidents occur. 4.3.2.  Requesting  Support.    If  not  already  covered  by  MAAs,  installation  plans  and checklists will include geographic combatant command and  MAJCOM guidance regarding the proper military channels to request assistance during catastrophes and other significant emergencies.  The process for requesting forces is shown in Figure 4.3 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 27 Figure 4.3.  Request for Forces Process.  4.3.3.  Reach-Back  Support  Process.    DOD  and  other  USG  agencies  have  assembled technical  expertise  to  support  incidents  worldwide.    While  some  teams  are  designed  to deploy  where  needed,  others  are  available  to  answer  technical  questions  and  give  advice during emergencies.  Refer to geographic combatant command and MAJCOM guidance for reach-back capabilities, and include those opportunities in installation plans and checklists.  When  requesting  assistance,  identify  the  desired  capability  as  opposed  to  specifying  a particular team. 4.3.4.  Support  to  Civil  Authorities  (Domestic  and  Foreign).    Defense  Support  of  Civil Authorities  (DSCA,  also  known  as  Military  Support  to  Civil  Authorities)  and  FCM  are outside the scope of this document, but the essence of AFIMS principles will still apply when supporting civil authorities.  Since AFIMS was formed using the NIMS guidance, working with domestic agencies should create few issues.  Foreign governments do not have to follow NIMS guidance, so attempts at interoperability may create a few more issues.  Regardless, AF must adapt to the lead authorities when serving in a support role (e.g. DSCA and FCM).  Integrated exercises plus lessons learned from actual responses should reduce interoperability issues  over  time.    Refer  to  geographic  combatant  command  guidance  for  more  regarding DSCA and FCM operations. 4.3.5.  Installation Tasking Mechanisms.  There are three installation tasking mechanisms to deal with emergencies: Immediate Response, Essential Assistance, and Formally Requested Civil Assistance via the DHS. 4.3.5.1.  Immediate Response Authority.  DOD doctrine allows commanders to provide resources  and  assistance  to  civil  authorities  without  or  prior  to  a  declaration  under  the Stafford  Act  when  a  disaster  overwhelms  the  capabilities  of  local  authorities  and necessitates immediate action ―to prevent human suffering, save lives, or mitigate great property damage.‖ (DODD 3025.1) 28 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 4.3.5.2.  Essential  Assistance  (10-Day  Authority)  Stafford  Act  Section  403.    Upon  the request of the governor, the President may task the DOD to provide any emergency work the President deems essential for the preservation of life and property in the immediate aftermath of an incident that may ultimately qualify for assistance under a declaration.  Such  assistance  is  available  for  up  to  ten  days  before  a  presidential  declaration  of  an emergency  or  a  major  disaster  is  issued,  42  U.S.C.  §  5170b(c).    Emergency  work  can include the clearance and removal of debris and wreckage and the restoration of essential public facilities and services, 42 U.S.C. § 5170(c)(6)(B).  The provision is designed to be used  in  instances  where  communications  problems  impede  the  ability  to  meet  the prerequisites for declaring an emergency or major disaster or the ability to coordinate the work through the Primary Federal Agency (PFA). 4.3.5.3.  Civil Support.  Civil support requests are routed through the PFA for domestic incidents  and  through  the  DOS  for  foreign  incidents.    Joint  Publication  3-28,  Civil Support, defines specific routing procedures.  Once a request has been cleared through appropriate  military  channels,  United  States  Joint  Forces  Command  tasks  appropriate installation(s) through the normal guidance for Employment of Forces process. 4.4.  AFIMS Response and Recovery Challenges.  AFIMS provides a standardized framework for  responding  to  all  hazards  in  all  operational  environments;  (i.e.  in-garrison  or  deployed) natural  disaster  or  major  accident,  terrorist  attack  or  hostilities  with  an  enemy  state.  Nevertheless, the implementation and execution of AFIMS does involve challenges. 4.4.1.  The use of AFIMS during hostilities represents a situation where a single person, the EOC director, should assume the role of area command commander.  See paragraph  2.5.2 for an explanation of area command.  Many installations  have not exercised or trained on area command operations.  This could cause some challenges for installations until they have trained and exercised using this type of command. 4.4.2.  NIMS and AFIMS will not be adopted by joint or combined forces along the same time lines as the Air Force implementation.  Consequently, for the foreseeable future, it will be  incumbent  upon  the  Air  Force  organizations  involved  to  resolve  the  issue.   Refer  to paragraph 2.5.3 and paragraph 2.5.4 for discussions on ways to resolve these issues when working with joint or combined forces at an expeditionary site. 4.4.3.  Recovery presents a unique situation in that most recovery efforts don’t require an IC but do require significant support from the EOC.  It is recommended that recovery operations use as a rule a Recovery Operations Chief.  This element is the tactical piece of the effort on scene.  Using this title and format allows for a smooth transfer of command from the IC to the recovery operation and provides for a chain of command and recognition by EOC ESFs.  Training for those assigned to be in charge of recovery operations is defined in AFI 10-2501. 4.5.  Lessons  Learned  and  After-Action  Reporting.  A  lesson  learned  is  defined  as  a technique,  procedure,  or  practical  work-around  that  enabled  a  task  to  be  accomplished  to standard based on an identified deficiency or shortcoming. 4.5.1.  Procedures  for  capturing  lessons  learned  are  outlined  in  AFI  10-204,  Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program.  Commanders must send an installation-wide lessons-learned report to their MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency, or Direct Reporting Unit AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 29 for all emergency responses.  See AFI 10-204 for guidance on reportable actions as well as preparing and submitting the report. 4.5.2.  Joint  Lessons  Learned  Program  (JLLP)  and  Submission  Process:  The  JLLP  is  a knowledge management process established to enhance joint capabilities through discovery, knowledge  development,  implementation,  and  sharing  of  lessons  from  joint  operations, training events, exercises, and other activities. 4.5.2.1.  The JLLP applies to the full range of joint military operations including training, exercises, experiments, real-world  events, and other activities involving  DOD assets of the Armed Forces of the United States. 4.5.2.2.  The  Air  Force  uses  the  Joint  Lesson-Learned  Information  System  (JLLIS)  to document and track AF lessons learned.  Anyone may make a lesson learned submission using the following links: NIPRNET: go to https://www.jllis.mil/USAF and SIPRNET: go  to  http://www.jllis.smil.mil/USAF.    Figure  4.4  shows  the  relationships  of  the different elements of this integral process. 4.5.2.2.1.  The JLLIS is comprised of two separate but integral parts: (1) an input and management support tool, and (2) a central repository.  The input and management support tool allows any approved user to submit observations via a web-enabled user interface.  The central repository provides users a single location to access validated joint observations, lessons, and issues. 4.5.2.2.2.  Access  to  JLLIS  capabilities  and  lessons  learned  data  is  tiered  to  ensure sensitive information is protected IAW security directives, command direction, role-based partitioning, and specific collection activity and event guidance. 4.5.2.2.3.  When  you  identify  a  lesson  learned,  EM  personnel  should  consider including  identified  lessons  learned  as  discussion  points  during  EMWG  meetings.  Finally,  by  documenting  and  cross  feeding  lessons  learned,  resource  protection  is greatly enhanced. 30 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Figure 4.4.  Air Force Lessons Learned Process.  AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 31 Chapter 5 INFORMATION COLLECTION, RECORDS, AND FORMS 5.1.  Information Collections.  No information collections are created by this publication. 5.2.  Records.  The  program  records  created  as  a  result  of  the  processes  prescribed  in  this publication  are  maintained  IAW  AFMAN  33-363  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  AFRIMS  RDS located at Hhttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. 5.3.  Prescribed and Adopted Forms. 5.3.1.  Prescribed Forms.  No prescribed forms are implemented in this publication 5.3.2.  Adopted Forms.  AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication    PHILIP M BREEDLOVE, Lt Gen, USAF DCS/Operations, Plans and Requirements 32 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 29 CFR 1910.120, Occupational Safety and Health, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response AFDD 2-10, Homeland Security Operations, 21 March 2006 AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program, 12 July 2002 AFI 10-218, Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With Natural Disasters Or National Emergencies, 31 October 2006 AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009 AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, 9 March 2004 AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24 January 2007 AFI 10-2604, Disease Containment Planning Guidance, 6 April 2007 AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006 AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities, 19 April 2002 AFI 24-201, Cargo Movement, 10 March 2005 AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 Mar 2003 AFI 31-104, Air Force Raven Program (FOUO), 27 December 2004 AFI 33-108, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Communications and Information Systems, 14 July 1994 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006 AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures, 29 November 2005 AFI 71-101 V1, Criminal Investigations, 1 December 1999 AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver, 27 August 1993 AFMAN 10-2507, Readiness and Emergency Management Flight Operations, 14 May 2009 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment, 28 March 2007 AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006 AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007 DOD 3150.8-M, Nuclear Weapons Accident Response Procedures (NARP), 1 February 2005 DODD 3020.36, Assignment of National Security Emergency Preparedness (NSEP) Responsibilities to DOD Components, 2 November 1998 DODD 3025.1, Military Support to Civil Authorities (MSCA), 15 January 1993 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 33 DODD 3025.15, Military Assistance to Civil Authorities, 18 February 1997 DODI 2000.16, DOD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, 2 October 2006 DODI 2000.18, Department of Defense Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive Emergency Response Guidelines, 4 December 2002 DODI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, 9 August 1995 DODI 5400.14, Procedures for Joint Public Affairs Operations, 22 January 1996 DODI 6055.17, Installation Emergency Management Program, 13 January 2009 Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 5, Management of Domestic Incidents, 28 February 2003 Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 8, National Preparedness, 17 December 2003 JP 3-28, Civil Support, 14 September 2007 National Incident Management System (NIMS), 1 March 2004 National Response Framework (NRF), January 2008 Public Law 93-288, The Disaster Relief Act of 1974 aka The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended by Public Law 100-707, June 2007 Abbreviations and Acronyms ACE—Adaptive Communications Element AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency AFI—Air Force Instruction AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System AFJMAN—Air Force Joint Manual AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFNORTH—Air Forces Northern AFNSEP—Air Force National Security and Emergency Preparedness AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AOR—Area of Responsibility AT—Antiterrorism BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center C2—Command and Control CAT—Crisis Action Team CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive 34 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 CE—Civil Engineer CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CM—Consequence Management COMSEC—Communications Security CONOP—Concept of Operation CONUS—Continental United States COP—Common Operational Picture CoP—Community of Practice COOP—Continuity of Operations CP—Command Post DHS—Department of Homeland Security DOD—Department of Defense DODD—Department of Defense Directive DODI—Department of Defense Instruction DOE—Department of Energy DOS—Department of State DRF—Disaster Response Force DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Authorities ECC—Emergency Communications Center EM—Emergency Management EMWG—Emergency Management Working Group EOC—Emergency Operations Center EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal EPI—Epidemiological Investigation EPLO—Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer ESF—Emergency Support Function FCM—Foreign Consequence Management FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency FES—Fire Emergency Services FP—Force Protection FPWG—Force Protection Working Group AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 35 FSS—Force Support Squadron HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials HN—Host Nation HQ—Headquarters HHQ—Higher Headquarters HSPD—Homeland Security Presidential Directive IAP—Incident Action Plan IAW—In Accordance With IC—Incident Commander ICP—Incident Command Post ICS—Incident Command System IED—Improvised Explosive Device IMT—Information Management Tool IPE—Individual Protective Equipment ISO—Incident Safety Officer JDOMS—Joint Director of Military Support JIC—Joint Information Center JIS—Joint Information System JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System JLLP—Joint Lessons Learned Program LNO—Liaison Officer MAA—Mutual Aid Agreement MAJCOM—Major Command MACS—Multiagency Coordination System NARP—Nuclear Weapons Accident Response Procedures NDA—National Defense Area NGO—Nongovernmental Organization NIMS—National Incident Management System NRF—National Response Framework NSEP—National Security Emergency Preparedness NWAPP—Nuclear Weapon Accident Program Plan OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States 36 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OPSEC—Operations Security PAO—Public Affairs Officer PFA—Primary Federal Agency PIO—Public Information Officer PPE—Personal Protective Equipment RDS—Records Disposition Schedule ROC—Recovery Operations Chief RTF—Response Task Force SecDef—Secretary of Defense SF—Security Forces SME—Subject Matter Expert SMR—Senior Military Representative UC—Unified Command UCC—Unit Control Center US&R—Urban Search and Rescue USAF—United States Air Force USC—United States Code USG—United States Government USNORTHCOM—United States Northern Command UXO—Unexploded Explosive Ordnance WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction Terms Air  Force  Emergency  Management  (EM)  Program—The  single,  integrated  Air  Force program to coordinate and organize efforts to prepare for, prevent, respond to, recover from, and mitigate the direct and indirect consequences of an emergency or attack.  The primary missions of  the  Air  Force  EM  program  are  to  (1)  save  lives,  (2)  minimize  the  loss  or  degradation  of resources,  and  (3)  continue,  sustain,  and  restore  combat  and  combat  support  operational capability  in  an  all-hazards  physical  threat  environment  at  Air  Force  installations  worldwide.  The ancillary missions of the Air Force EM program are to support homeland defense and civil support  operations  and  to  provide  support  to  civil  and  host  nation  authorities  IAW  DOD directives  and  through  the  appropriate  Combatant  Command.    The  Air  Force  EM  program  is managed by the Office of The Civil Engineer, AF/A7C. Air  Force  Incident  Management  System  (AFIMS)—A methodology designed to incorporate the requirements of HSPD requirements of the expeditionary Air Force.  AFIMS provides the AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 37 Air Force with an incident management system that is consistent with the single, comprehensive approach  to  domestic  incident  management.    AFIMS  provides  the  Air  Force  with  the coordinating structures, processes, and protocols required to integrate its specific authorities into the collective framework of Federal departments and agencies for action to include mitigation, prevention, preparedness, response, and recovery activities.  It includes a core set of concepts, principles,  terminology,  and  technologies  covering  the  incident  command  system,  EOCs, incident  command,  training,  identification  and  management  of  resources,  qualification  and certification,  and  the  collection,  tracking,  and  reporting  of  incident  information  and  incident resources.    The  AFIMS  methodology  is  incorporated  into  current  operating  practices  through revised instructions and manuals, training products, and exercise and evaluation tools. Antiterrorism  (AT)—Defensive measures used  to reduce the vulnerability of individuals  and property  to  terrorist  acts,  to  include  limited  response  and  containment  by  local  military  and civilian forces.  See also AFI 10-245. Area  of  Responsibility  (AOR)—The  geographical  area  associated  with  a  COCOM  within which a combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations. Awareness—The  continual  process  of  collecting,  analyzing,  and  disseminating  intelligence, information,  and  knowledge  to  allow  organizations  and  individuals  to  anticipate  requirements and to react effectively. Biological  Agent—A  microorganism  that  causes  disease  in  personnel,  plants,  or  animals  or causes the deterioration of material. Biological  Warfare  (BW)—Voluntary use of living organisms or their toxic products with the intent of killing or harming persons, useful animals or plants. CBRN—Operations  that  include  chemical,  biological,  radiological,  and  nuclear,  either individually  or  in  combination.    Collectively  known  as  WMD,  CBRN  replaces  ―NBC‖  when used  in  reference  to  operations  or  incidents  limited  to  NBC-only  issues.    Toxic  Industrial Chemical/Toxic Industrial Material (TIC/TIM) and HAZMAT are considered part of the ―C‖ in ―CBRN.‖ CBRNE—Operations  or  incidents  involving  chemical,  biological,  radiological,  nuclear,  and high-yield  explosives,  either  individually  or  in  combination.    ―CBRNE‖  is  used  anytime  that reference is not being made to WMD operations or incidents. CBRNE  Environment—Condition  of  warfare  in  which  an  adversary  possesses  or  uses chemical,  biological,  radiological,  nuclear,  or  high-yield  explosive  weapons,  by-products, infrastructure, and associated delivery methods. CBRNE  Hazard—Those  CBRNE  elements  that  pose  or  could  pose  a  hazard  to  individuals.  CBRNE hazards include those created from  accidental releases, TIC (especially air and  water poisons), biological pathogens, radioactive matter, and high-yield explosives.  Also included are any hazards resulting from the deliberate employment of WMD during military operations. Chemical Agent—Any toxic chemical intended for use in military operations. Chemical  Operations—Employment  of  chemical  agents  to  kill,  injure,  or  incapacitate  for  a significant period of time, personnel or animals, and deny or hinder the use of areas, facilities or material; or defense against employment of chemical agents. 38 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Chemical,  Biological,  Radiological,  Nuclear,  and  High—Yield  Explosive  (CBRNE) Incident—An  emergency  resulting  from  the  deliberate  or  unintentional  release  of  nuclear, biological, radiological, or toxic or poisonous chemical materials, or the detonation of a high-yield explosive. Command and Control (C2)—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander  over  assigned  and  attached  forces  in  the  accomplishment  of  the  mission.    C2 functions  are  performed  through  an  arrangement  of  personnel,  equipment,  communications, facilities,  and  procedures  employed  by  a  commander  in  planning,  directing,  coordinating,  and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission. Command  Post  (CP)—A unit or sub-unit’s headquarters where the commander and the staff perform  their  activities.    In  combat,  a  unit  or  sub-unit’s  headquarters  is  often  divided  into echelons. Common  Operational  Picture  (COP)—A  single  identical  display  of  relevant  information shared  by  more  than  one  command.    A  COP  facilitates  collaborative  planning  and  assists  all echelons to achieve situational awareness. Command Staff—In an incident management organization, the Command Staff consists of the Incident Command and the special staff positions of Public Information Officer, Safety Officer, Liaison Officer, and other positions as required, who report directly to the Incident Commander.  They may have an assistant or assistants, as needed. Consequence Management (CM)—Actions taken to maintain or restore essential services and manage  and  mitigate  problems  resulting  from  disasters  and  catastrophes,  including  natural, manmade, or terrorist incidents. Contamination—1.    The  deposit,  absorption,  or  adsorption  of  radioactive  material  or  of biological or chemical agents on or by structures, areas, personnel, or objects, or in aerosolized clouds.    2.    (DOD  only)  Food  or  water  made  unfit  for  consumption  by  humans  or  animals because of the presence of environmental chemicals, radioactive elements, bacteria or organisms, the by-product of the growth of bacteria or organisms, the decomposing material (to include the food substance itself) or waste in the food or water. Contamination  Control  Area  (CCA)—An  area  in  which  contaminated  IPE  is  removed  and people,  equipment,  and  supplies  are  decontaminated  to  allow  processing  between  a  toxic environment and a toxic-free area.  The CCA is the last area an individual can safely don IPE before moving into a contaminated area. Contingency—An  emergency  involving  military  forces  caused  by  natural  disasters,  terrorists, subversives,  or  by  required  military  operations.    Due  to  the  uncertainty  of  the  situation, contingencies  require  plans,  rapid  response,  and  special  procedures  to  ensure  the  safety  and readiness of personnel, installations, and equipment. Continuity of Operations (COOP)—The degree or state of being continuous in the conduct of functions, tasks, or duties necessary to accomplish a military action or mission in carrying out the national military strategy.  It includes the functions and duties of the commander as well as the supporting functions and duties performed by the staff and others acting under the authority and direction of the commander. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 39 Control Zones—The areas at a HAZMAT incident that are designated based upon safety and the degree of hazard. Cordon—A  physical  barrier  surrounding  the  incident  scene  where  controls  are  established  to preclude unauthorized entry. Crisis  Action  Team  (CAT)—A  C2  function  normally  activated  for  a  specific  incident  to oversee the mission operation of the installation.  The CAT is scalable to support and coordinate with the EOC. Decontamination—The  process  of  making  any  person,  object,  or  area  safe  by  absorbing, destroying,  neutralizing,  making  harmless,  or  removing  chemical  or  biological  agents,  or  by removing radioactive material clinging to or around it. Defense  Support  of  Civil  Authorities  (DSCA)—Refers  to  DOD  support,  including  Federal military forces, DOD civilians and contractor personnel, and DOD agencies and components, for domestic emergencies and for designated law enforcement and other activities. Deployment—1.    The  movement  of  forces  within  operational  areas.    2.    The  positioning  of forces into a formation for battle.  3.  The relocation of forces and material to desired operational areas.  Deployment encompasses all activities from origin or home station through destination, specifically including intra-continental United States, inter-theater, and intra-theater movement legs, staging, and holding areas. Detection—In  CBRNE  environments,  the  act  of  locating  CBRNE  hazards  by  use  of  CBRNE detectors or monitoring or survey teams. Disaster  Response  Force  (DRF)—The  Air  Force  structure  that  responds  to  disasters  or accidents, establishing C2 and supporting disaster operations. Dispersal—Relocation of forces for increasing survivability. Domestic Emergencies—Emergencies affecting the public welfare and occurring within the 50 States, District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, US possessions and territories, or any  political  subdivision  thereof,  as  a  result  of  enemy  attack,  insurrection,  civil  disturbance, earthquake, fire, flood, or other public disasters or equivalent emergencies that endanger life and property or disrupt the usual process of government.  The term domestic emergency includes any or all of the emergency conditions defined below: a.  Civil defense emergency.  A domestic emergency disaster situation resulting from devastation created by an enemy attack and requiring emergency operations during and following that attack.  It may be proclaimed by appropriate authority in anticipation of an attack. b.  Civil disturbances.  Riots, acts of violence, insurrections, unlawful obstructions or assemblages, or other disorders prejudicial to public law and order.  The term civil disturbance includes all domestic conditions requiring or likely to require the use of Federal Armed Forces pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 15 of Title 10, USC. c.  Major disaster.  Any flood, fire, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, or other catastrophe which, in the determination of the President, is or threatens to be of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant disaster assistance by the Federal government under Public Law 606, 91st Congress (42 USC 58) to supplement the efforts and available resources of State and local governments in alleviating the damage, hardship, or suffering caused thereby. 40 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 d.  Natural disaster.  All domestic emergencies except those created because of enemy attack or civil disturbance. Emergency Decontamination—The physical process of immediately reducing contamination of individuals in potentially life-threatening situations with or without the formal establishment of a decontamination  corridor.  (NFPA  471)  Note:  The  Environmental  Protection  Agency  does  not require runoff control when a process is used to save lives or reduce injury. Emergency  Operations  Center  (EOC)—The  EOC  is  the  C2  support  elements  that  directs, monitors, and supports the installation’s actions before, during, and after an incident.  The EOC is activated and recalled as necessary by the installation commander.  The EOC updates the CAT with ongoing incident status  and seeks support through the  CAT when  on-scene  requirements surpass  the  installation’s  inherent  capability  and  the  installation’s  cumulative  capabilities acquired  through  MAAs.    EOCs  may  also  support  MCS  and  joint  information  activities.  According to the NRF, the EOC is defined as ―The physical location at which the coordination of information  and  resources  to  support  attack  response  and  incident  management  activities normally takes place.  An EOC may be a temporary facility or may be located in a more central or  permanently  established  facility,  perhaps  at  a  higher  level  of  organization  within  a jurisdiction.    EOCs  may  be  organized  by  major  functional  disciplines  such  as  fire,  law enforcement, and medical services, by jurisdiction such as Federal, State, regional, county, city, tribal, or by some combination thereof.‖ Emergency  Responders—The  response  element  of  a  DRF  that  deploy  to  the  accident  scene after the first responders to expand C2 and perform support functions.  Emergency Responders include follow-on elements such as firefighters, law enforcement personnel, security personnel, and  emergency  medical  technicians,  as  well  as  Emergency  Management  personnel,  EOD personnel,  physicians,  nurses,  medical  treatment  providers  at  medical  treatment  facilities, readiness officers, public health officers, bioenvironmental engineering personnel, and mortuary affairs personnel.  Emergency Responders also include specialized teams such as the readiness support  team  or  shelter  management  teams.    Not  all  Emergency  Responders  are  First Responders, but all first responders are Emergency Responders.  Emergency Responders are not assigned  to  additional  duties  that  will  conflict  with  their  emergency  duties.    EOD  and  ECC personnel are considered Emergency Responders but not First Responders. (ESF)—ESFs  are  groupings  of  capabilities into  an Emergency  Support  Function organizational  structure  that  provides  the  support,  resources,  program  implementation,  and services that are most likely to be needed during an incident.   ESFs also serve as the primary operational-level mechanism that provides support during an incident. Evacuation—1.  The process of moving any person who is wounded, injured, or ill to and/or between medical treatment facilities.  2.  The clearance of personnel, animals, or materiel from a given locality.  3.  The controlled process of collecting, classifying, and shipping unserviceable or  abandoned  materiel,  US  or  foreign,  to  appropriate  reclamation,  maintenance,  technical intelligence,  or  disposal  facilities.    4.    The  ordered  or  authorized  departure  of  noncombatants from a specific area by  Department of State,  DOD, or appropriate military commander.   This refers  to  the  movement  from  one  area  to  another  in  the  same  or  different  countries.    The evacuation is caused by unusual or emergency circumstances and applies equally to command or non-command sponsored family members. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 41 Expeditionary Operation—An expeditionary operation is a military operation conducted by an armed force to accomplish a specific objective in a foreign country.   The missions of military expeditions may vary widely.  Examples of missions of military expeditions include providing humanitarian assistance in times of disaster or disruption; establishing and keeping peace in a foreign country; protecting US citizens or commerce abroad; retaliating for an act of aggression by a foreign political group; and destroying an enemy government by defeating its armed forces in combat. Expeditionary  Units—These  designated  units  are  formed  to  conduct  a  specific  mission  of limited duration in support of a combatant commander requirement.  Because a standing wing, group, or squadron does not normally deploy intact, UTCs from multiple units are deployed to create an expeditionary unit. Explosive Ordnance—All munitions containing explosives, nuclear fission or fusion materials, and  biological  and  chemical  agents.    This  includes  bombs  and  warheads;  guided  and  ballistic missiles; artillery, mortar, rocket,  and small arms ammunition; all mines, torpedoes and depth charges;  demolition  charges;  pyrotechnics;  clusters  and  dispensers;  cartridge  and  propellant actuated devices; electro-explosive devices; clandestine and IEDs; and all similar or related items or components explosive in nature. Facility—A  real  property  entity  consisting  of  one  or  more  of  the  following:  a  building,  a structure, a utility system, pavement, and underlying land. Federal  Emergency  Management  Agency  (FEMA)—The Federal agency tasked to establish Federal  policies  for  and  coordinate  civil  defense  and  civil  emergency  planning,  management, mitigation, and assistance functions of Executive agencies. First Responders—The DRF elements that deploys immediately to the disaster scene to provide initial  C2,  to  save  lives,  and  to  suppress  and  control  hazards.    Firefighters,  law  enforcement security  personnel,  and  key  medical  personnel  provide  the  initial,  immediate  response  to  a CBRNE  incident.    All  first  responders  are  Emergency  Responders,  but  not  all  Emergency Responders  are  First  Responders.    First  responders  are  not  assigned  as  augmentees  or  to additional duties that will conflict with their emergency duties. Force  Protection  (FP)—Also called FP.   Actions taken to prevent or mitigate hostile actions against  DOD  personnel  (to  include  family  members),  resources,  facilities,  and  critical information.    These  actions  conserve  the  force’s  fighting  potential  so  it  can  be  applied  at  the decisive  time  and  place  and  incorporate  the  coordinated  and  synchronized  offensive  and defensive  measures  to  enable  the  effective  employment  of  the  joint  force  while  degrading opportunities for the enemy.  Force protection does not include actions to defeat the enemy or protect against accidents, weather, or disease.  (JP 1-02) [An integrated application of offensive and defensive actions that deter, detect, pre-empt, mitigate, or negate threats against or hazards to Air Force air and space operations and assets, based on an acceptable level of risk.] (Definition in brackets applies only to the Air Force and is offered for clarity.) see also AFI 10-245. General Staff—A group of incident management personnel organized according to function and reporting to the  Incident Commander.  The General Staff normally  consists of the Operations Section  Chief,  Planning  Section  Chief,  Logistics  Section  Chief,  and  Finance/Administration Section Chief. 42 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Hazardous  Materials  (HAZMAT)—Any  material  that  is  flammable,  corrosive,  an  oxidizing agent, explosive, toxic, poisonous, etiological, radioactive, nuclear, unduly magnetic, a chemical agent, biological research material, compressed gases, or any other material that, because of its quantity, properties, or packaging, may endanger life or property. High—Yield  Explosive  (HE)—Any  conventional  weapon  or  device  that  is  capable  of  a  high order of destruction or disruption or of being used to kill or injure large numbers of people. territory,  domestic Homeland  Defense—The  protection  of  United  States  sovereignty, population, and critical infrastructure against external threats and aggression or other threats as directed by the President.  The DOD is responsible for homeland defense.  Homeland defense includes missions such as domestic air defense.  The Department recognizes that threats planned or inspired by ―external‖ actors may materialize internally.  The reference to ―external threats‖ does not limit where or how attacks could be planned and executed.  The Department is prepared to  conduct  homeland  defense  missions  whenever  the  President,  exercising  his  constitutional authority as Commander in Chief, authorizes military actions. Homeland  Security  Presidential  Directive—5  (HSPD-5)—A Presidential directive issued on February 28, 2003 and intended to enhance the ability of the United States to manage domestic incidents  by  establishing  a  single,  comprehensive  National  Incident  Management  System (NIMS). Homeland  Security—Homeland  security,  as  defined  in  the  National  Strategy  for  Homeland Security,  is  a  concerted  national  effort  to  prevent  terrorist  attacks  within  the  United  States, reduce America’s vulnerability to terrorism, and minimize the damage and recover from attacks that do occur.  The DOD contributes to homeland security through its military missions overseas, homeland defense, and support to civil authorities. Host  Nation  (HN)—A  nation  that  receives  the  forces  or  supplies  of  allied  nations,  coalition partners, or NATO organizations to be located on, to operate in, or to transit through its territory. Identification—In  CBRNE  operations,  the  determination  of  whether  CBRNE  materials  or pathogens are present. Incident  Action  Plan—An  oral  or  written  plan  containing  general  objectives  reflecting  the overall  strategy  for  managing  an  incident.    It  may  include  the  identification  of  operational resources and assignments.  It may also include attachments that provide direction and important information for management of the incident during one or more operational periods. Incident Commander (IC)—The individual responsible for all incident activities, including the development  of  strategies  and  tactics  and  the  ordering  and  release  of  resources.    The  IC  has overall authority and responsibility for conducting incident operations and is responsible for the management  of  all  incident  operations  at  the  incident  site.    The  IC  must  be  fully  qualified  to manage the response. Incident  Command  Post  (ICP)—The  field  location  at  which  the  primary  tactical  level,  on-scene incident command functions are performed.  The ICP may be collocated with the incident base or other incident facilities and is normally identified by a green rotating or flashing light. Incident  Command  System  (ICS)—ICS  is  the  model  tool  for  command,  control,  and coordination of a response and provides a means to coordinate the efforts of individual agencies as they work toward the common goal of stabilizing the incident and protecting life, property, AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 43 and  the  environment.    ICS  uses  principles  that  have  been  proven  to  improve  efficiency  and effectiveness in a business setting and applies the principles to emergency response. Incident—An  occurrence  or  event,  natural  or  human  caused,  that  requires  an  emergency response  to  protect  life  or  property.    Incidents  for  example,  can  include  major  disasters, emergencies, terrorist attacks, terrorist threats, wildland and urban fires, floods, HAZMAT spills, nuclear  accidents,  aircraft  accidents,  earthquakes,  hurricanes,  tornadoes,  tropical  storms,  war-related  disasters,  public  health  and  medical  emergencies,  and  other  occurrences  requiring  an emergency response. Individual Protection—Actions taken by individuals to survive under CBRN conditions. Individual  Protective  Equipment  (IPE)—In  nuclear,  biological,  and  chemical  warfare,  the personal clothing and equipment required to protect an individual from biological and chemical hazards and some nuclear effects. Initial Actions—The actions taken by those responders who are first to arrive at an incident site. Initial Response—Resources initially committed to an incident. In—place Patient  Decontamination (IPPD)—The capability at a medical treatment facility to decontaminate  patients  arriving  at  the  facility  with  potential  contamination  from  a  CBRN incident. Installation  Commander—The  individual  responsible  for  all  operations  performed  by  an installation. Integrated  Defense—Integrated  Defense  is  the  integration  of  multidisciplinary  active  and passive,  offensive  and  defensive  capabilities,  employed  to  mitigate  potential  risks  and  defeat adversary threats to Air Force operations. Law  Enforcement  Agency—Any  of  a  number  of  agencies  (outside  the  DOD)  chartered  and empowered  to  enforce  US  laws  in  the  following  jurisdictions:  the  United  States,  a  State  or political subdivision of the United States, a territory or possession of the United States, or within the borders of a host nation. Mitigation—Activities designed to reduce or eliminate risks to persons or property or to lessen the  actual  or  potential  effects  or  consequences  of  an  incident.    Mitigation  measures  may  be implemented prior to, during, or after an incident.  Mitigation measures are often developed IAW lessons learned from prior incidents.  Mitigation involves ongoing actions to reduce exposure to, probability of, or potential loss from hazards.  Measures may include zoning and building codes, flood plain buyouts, and analysis of hazard-related data to determine where it is safe to build or locate temporary facilities.  Mitigation can include efforts to educate governments, businesses, and the public on measures they can take to reduce loss and injury. Monitoring—The process of sampling over time to identify changes in conditions. Mutual  Aid  Agreement  (MAA)—Written  agreement  between  agencies,  organizations,  or jurisdictions that they will assist one another on request by furnishing personnel, equipment, or expertise in a specified manner.  Reciprocal assistance by local government and an installation for  emergency  services  under  a  prearranged  plan.    Mutual  aid  is  synonymous  with  ―mutual assistance,‖  ―outside  aid,‖  ―memorandums  of  understanding,‖  ―memorandums  of  agreement,‖ ―letters  of  agreement,‖  ―cooperative  assistant  agreement,‖  ―intergovernmental  compacts,‖  or 44 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 other similar agreements, written or verbal, that constitute an agreed reciprocal assistance plan for  sharing  emergency  services.    MAAs  between  entities  is  an  effective  means  to  obtain resources and should be developed whenever possible.  MAAs should be in writing, be reviewed by legal counsel, and be signed by a responsible official. Mutual  Support—Support which units render each other against any enemy, because of their assigned  tasks,  their  position  relative  to  each  other  and  to  the  enemy  and  their  inherent capabilities. National  Defense  Area  (NDA)—An area established on non-Federal lands located within the United  States,  its  possessions,  or  territories  for  the  purpose  of  safeguarding  classified  defense information or protecting DOD equipment or material.  Establishment of an NDA temporarily places such non-Federal lands under the effective control of the DOD and results only from an emergency event.  The senior DOD representative at the scene will define the boundary, mark it with a physical barrier, and post warning signs.  The landowner’s consent and cooperation will be  obtained  whenever  possible;  however,  military  necessity  will  dictate  the  final  decision regarding location, shape, and size of the NDA. National  Emergency—A condition declared by the President or Congress by virtue of powers previously  vested  in  them  that  authorize  certain  emergency  actions  to  be  undertaken  in  the national interest.  Action to be taken may include partial, full, or total mobilization of national resources. National  Incident  Management  System  (NIMS)—A  system  mandated  by  HSPD-5  that provides a consistent, nationwide approach for Federal, State, local, and tribal governments; the private sector; and NGO to work effectively and efficiently together to prepare for, respond to, and recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size, or complexity.   To provide for interoperability and compatibility among Federal, State, local, and tribal capabilities, the NIMS includes a core set of concepts, principles, and terminology.  HSPD-5 identifies these as the ICS; multiagency  coordination  systems;  training;  identification,  and  management  of  resources (including  systems  for  classifying  types  of  resources);  qualification  and  certification;  and  the collection, tracking, and reporting of incident information and incident resources. Passive  Defense—Measures taken to reduce the probability of and to minimize the effects  of damage caused by hostile action without the intention of taking the initiative.  [To protect US, allied,  and  coalition  forces  against  CBRN  effects,  including  measures  to  detect  and  identify CBRN  agents,  individual  and  collective  protection  equipment,  CBRN  medical  response, vaccines  for  biological  warfare  defense,  and  CBRN  decontamination  capabilities.]  {Words  in brackets apply only to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.} Personal  Protective  Equipment  (PPE)—Personal  Protective  Equipment  (PPE)  is  equipment designed to protect individuals exposed to hazards from injury or illness in non-military-unique occupational environments where Occupational Safety and Health Act or applicable Air Force Occupational  Safety  and  Health  standards  apply,  including  emergency  response  to  CBRNE incidents in the United States. Preparedness—The range of deliberate, critical tasks and activities necessary to build, sustain, and improve the operational capability to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from domestic  incidents.    Preparedness  is  a  continuous  process  involving  efforts  at  all  levels  of AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 45 government and between government and private sector and NGO to identify threats, determine vulnerabilities, and identify required resources. Prevention—Actions  to  avoid  an  incident  or  to  intervene  to  stop  an  incident  from  occurring.  Prevention involves actions to protect lives and property.  It involves applying intelligence and other information to a range of activities that may include such countermeasures as deterrence operations; heightened inspections; improved surveillance and security operations; investigations to determine the full nature and source of the threat; public health and agricultural surveillance and testing processes; immunizations, isolation or quarantine; and, as appropriate, specific law enforcement operations aimed at deterring, preempting, interdicting or disrupting illegal activity and apprehending potential perpetrators and bringing them to justice. Public Health Emergency—An occurrence or imminent threat of an illness or health condition caused  by  biological  warfare  or  terrorism,  epidemic  or  pandemic  disease,  or  highly  fatal infection agent or biological toxin, that poses a substantial risk of a significant number of human casualties. Public Health Emergency Officer (PHEO)—The PHEO will be a Medical Corps officer with experience  in  preventive  medicine  or  emergency  response  such  as  the  assigned  Chief  of Aerospace Medicine (SGP) or Chief of Medical Services (SGH).  Every installation commander will  designate,  in  writing,  the  installation  PHEO  and  an  alternate  PHEO  to  provide  EM recommendations (to include medical or public health recommendations) in response to public health emergencies. Recovery—The development, coordination, and execution of service- and site-restoration plans for impacted communities and the reconstitution of government operations and services through individual, private sector, nongovernmental, and public assistance programs that: identify needs and  define  resources;  provide  housing  and  promote  restoration;  address  long-term  care  and treatment  of  affected  persons;  implement  additional  measures  for  community  restoration; incorporate  mitigation  measures  and  techniques,  as  feasible;  evaluate  the  incident  to  identify lessons learned; and develop initiatives to mitigate the effects of future incidents. Recovery  Operations  Chief—The Recovery Operations Chief must be a subject matter expert in the hazards or activities within the incident site.  If it is a HAZMAT incident, the organization or individual that assumes control of the site must be knowledgeable of the hazards and recovery procedures.  For example, initiating actions to contain the hazard and clean up the site to restore the area to its condition before the incident.  The person in charge of that work should have an environmental engineering background and be familiar with HAZMAT clean-up requirements.  If it is an aircraft incident, the recovery operations chief should be familiar with that aircraft or be a member of the interim aircraft mishap investigation team.  The EOC Director should select the individual that will be in charge of the site. Response—Activities  that  address  the  short-term,  direct  effects  of  an  incident.    Response includes  immediate  actions  to  save  lives,  protect  property,  and  meet  basic  human  needs.  Response also includes the execution of emergency operations plans and of incident mitigation activities  designed  to  limit  the  loss  of  life,  personal  injury,  property  damage,  and  other unfavorable  outcomes.    As  indicated  by  the  situation,  response  activities  include:  applying intelligence and other information to lessen the effects or consequences of an incident; increased security operations; continuing investigations into the nature and source of the threat; ongoing public  health  and  agricultural  surveillance  and  testing  processes;  immunizations,  isolation  or 46 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 quarantine;  and  specific  law  enforcement  operations  aimed  at  preempting,  interdicting  or disrupting illegal activity and apprehending actual perpetrators and bringing them to justice. Sampling—The  process  of  collecting  a  representative  amount  of  gas,  liquid,  solid,  or  a characteristic of one of these, such as gamma or pH, to analyze. Senior Military Representative—The installation commander or EOC Director can dispatch to, or  the  incident  commander  can  request  a  senior  military  representative  (SMR)  at  the  incident site.    The  SMRs’  primary  purpose  is  to  liaison  with  media  and  outside  agencies  during  high visibility incidents or to support the incident commander. Specialized  Teams—The  teams  formed  from  the  existing  installation  and  unit  personnel resources  to  support  emergency  response  operations.    For  the  purposes  of  this  AFMAN, emergency  response  support  teams  that  are  part  of  the  DRF  include  the  RST,  SMTs, Contamination Control teams, and Post Attack Reconnaissance teams.  Other teams that support emergency  response,  but  have  functional  responsibilities  beyond  emergency  response,  are  not considered  part  of  the  DRF.    Examples  of  such  teams  are  Search  and  Recovery  or  Crash Recovery. Technical  Decontamination—(also known as thorough or nine-step process decontamination) The physical or chemical process of deliberate decontamination to achieve a thorough cleansing and  removal  of  contaminants  from  personnel  and  equipment.    Note:  Unlike  decontamination, EPA requires run-off control for this type of process. Threat—An indication of possible violence, harm, or danger. Toxic Industrial Chemicals  (TIC)—Any chemicals manufactured, used, transported, or stored by  industrial,  medical,  or  commercial  processes.    For  example:  pesticides,  petrochemicals, fertilizers, corrosives, or poisons. Toxic Industrial Materials (TIM)—All toxic industrial materials (TIMs) manufactured, stored, transported, used in industrial or commercial processes.  It includes toxic industrial chemicals, toxic industrial radiologicals,  and toxic industrial biologicals.   TIMs produce toxic impacts  to personnel, materials, and infrastructure. Unexploded  Ordnance  (UXO)—Explosive  ordnance  that  has  been  primed,  fused,  armed  or otherwise prepared for action and then fired, dropped, launched, projected, or placed in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to operations, installations, personnel, or material, and remains unexploded either by malfunction or design or for any other cause. Vulnerability  Assessment—A  DOD,  command  or  unit-level  evaluation  (assessment)  to determine  the  vulnerability  to  terrorist  attack  of  an  installation,  unit,  exercise,  port,  ship, residence, facility, or other site.  Identifies areas of improvement to withstand, mitigate, or deter acts of violence or terrorism. Vulnerability—The  susceptibility  of  a  nation  or  military  force  to  any  action  by  any  means through  which  its  war  potential  or  combat  effectiveness  may  be  reduced  or  its  will  to  fight diminished.    The  characteristics  of  a  system  that  cause  it  to  suffer  a  definite  degradation (incapability to perform the designated mission) as a result of having been subjected to a certain level  of  effects  in  an  unnatural  (manmade)  hostile  environment.    In  information  operations,  a weakness in information system security design, procedures, implementation, or internal controls that could be exploited to gain unauthorized access to information systems. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 47 Weapon  of  Mass  Destruction  (WMD)—Weapons  that  are  capable  of  a  high  order  of destruction or of being used in such a manner as to destroy large numbers of people.  WMD can be chemical, biological,  radiological, nuclear weapons, and high-yield  explosives, but exclude the  means  of  transporting  or  propelling  the  weapon  where  such  means  is  a  separable  and divisible part of the weapon.  48 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Attachment 2 INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS) A2.1.  Overview.  As  described  in  NIMS,  the  ICS  is  the  combination  of  facilities,  equipment, personnel, procedures, and communications operating within a common organizational structure designed to aid in domestic incident management activities.  It is used for a broad spectrum of emergencies,  from  small  to  complex  incidents  (natural  and  manmade),  to  include  acts  of catastrophic terrorism.  ICS is used at all levels of government (e.g. Federal, state, local, tribal) as well as by many private sector and NGOs.   ICS is  organized around  five major functional areas:  command,  operations,  planning,  logistics,  and  finance  and  administration  as  shown  in Figure A2.1. Figure A2.1.  Example ICS Structure.  A2.2.  ICS  Organizational  Structure.  The ICS organizational structure is modular, extending to  incorporate  all  elements  necessary  for  the  type,  size,  scope,  and  complexity  of  a  given incident.   The  ICS structure builds from the top down; responsibility begins  with the incident command element and the IC.  When the need arises, four separate sections under the command function can be used to organize the staff.  Each section may have several subordinate units or branches  as  deemed  necessary  to  manage  the  incident.    If  one  individual  can  simultaneously manage all functional areas, there is no need to extend the organizational structure.  However, if one  or  more  functions  require  greater  attention  and  oversight,  individual  managers  are responsible for those particular functions. A2.3.  ICS  Core  Characteristics.  The  ICS  core  characteristics  (Figure  A2.2)  include: management by objectives, manageable span of control, comprehensive resource management, integrated communications, IAP, establishment and transfer of command, chain of command and unity  of  command,  accountability  of  resources  and  personnel,  deployment,  incident  command post,  common intelligence management. terminology,  modular  organization,  and information  and AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 49 Figure A2.2.  ICS Core Characteristics.  A2.4.  Incident  Command  Post  (ICP).  According to NIMS and ICS, the ICP is the physical location  at  the  tactical-level  for  on-scene  incident  command  and  management  organization.  Typically, it is comprised of the IC, Command Staff (Safety Officer, Liaison Officer, and Public Information  Officer) and Finance/Administration).    Most  Air  Force  incidents  will  not  require  the  entire  Command  and General Staff.  In most cases the tasks associated with the General Staff functions of Planning, Logistics, and Finance/Admin will be carried out by those in the EOC.  It may also include other designated incident management officials and responders from Federal, State, local, and tribal agencies, as well as private sector, nongovernmental, and volunteer organizations. (Operations,  Planning,  Logistics, and  General  Staff A2.4.1.  Incident planning is also conducted at the ICP.  An incident communications center, consisting of the Mobile Communications Vehicle (MCV), would normally be established at this location. A2.4.2.  The ICP may be collocated with the incident base (location at which primary support activities are conducted) if the communications requirements can be met.  The ICP may use any  of  the  three  mobile  communications  levels  (Levels  1-3)  for  mobile  communications 50 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 capabilities to support AFIMS mobile incident response command and control as identified in AFI 10-2501. A2.5.  Incident Commander.  The IC has specific duties and responsibilities in the management of an incident to include; assumption and transfer of command, chain of command, and unity of command, specific situations and Federal certification standards for ICs, and finally ICS span of control. A2.5.1.  IC Duties and Responsibilities.  The command function is directed by the IC.  Major responsibilities for the IC are shown in Table A2.1. Table A2.1.  Incident Commander Duties and Responsibilities. Ensuring clear authority and knowledge of policies. Establishing Incident Command. Gaining situational awareness. Establishing initial priorities and determine initial resource requirements. Ensuring incident safety. Establishing the ICP. Obtaining a briefing from the prior IC and/or assessing the situation. Establishing immediate priorities and determining incident objectives. Establishing the level of organization needed and continuously monitoring the operation and effectiveness of that organization. Managing planning meetings as required, approval and implementation of the IAP and coordination of command and general staff activities. Approving requests for additional resources releasing resources, to include students, volunteers, and auxiliary or augmentees. Authorizing release of information to the news media. Ordering demobilization of the incident when appropriate and ensuring incident after-action reports are completed. A2.5.2.  Assumption  and  Transfer  of  Command,  Chain  of  Command,  and  Unity  of Command.    The  position  of  IC  will  always  be  filled  and  starts  with  the  first  arriving emergency responder.  The IC may assign personnel to subordinate or specific positions for the duration of the emergency or operational period.  The role of IC, or any other position, may be assumed by senior or higher qualified personnel upon their arrival, at the beginning of a new operational period, or as the situation dictates and the appropriate changeover has taken place.  When command is transferred, the process must include a briefing that captures all  essential  information  for  continuing  safe  and  effective  operations.    Chain  of  command refers  to  the  orderly  line  of  authority  within  the  ranks  of  the  incident  management organization.  Unity of command means that every individual has a designated supervisor to whom  they  report  at  the  scene  of  the  incident.    These  principles  clarify  reporting relationships  and  eliminate  confusion  caused  by  multiple,  conflicting  directives.    Incident managers  at  all  levels  must  be  able  to  control  the  actions  of  all  personnel  under  their supervision. A2.5.2.1.  Recommended  IC  for Specific Situations.  Depending upon the situation the responding  agency  will  be  the  incident  commander.    If  the  incident  will  require  other agencies  to  respond  to  the  incident,  then  the  incident  commander  must  have  the AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 51 appropriate  training  and  experience  as  an  incident  commander.    If  situations  warrant, either  specific  operations  section  chiefs  may  come  from  other  functionals  such  as Security  Forces,  Medical,  or  EOD  or  a  unified  command  may  be  necessary.    Such examples  include  domestic  or  terrorist  response  incidents  involving  active  hostilities, FES will serve as the IC but Security Forces will be in the position of Operations Section Chief.    After  SF  personnel  have  contained  or  neutralized  any  hostile  forces  then  the operations section chief may transfer to fire or medical.  The BDOC will be the C2 node for  all  non-permissive  environments  such  as  hostage  situations  or  for  hostile  armed individuals on the installation.  Medical could be the IC during pandemic influenza, other communicable disease outbreaks, or biological agent attacks. A2.5.2.2.  Federal Certification Standards for ICs.  Federal certification standards for ICs do  not  exist  for  incidents  such  as  biological  disease  outbreaks.    As  the  National Integration  Center  (NIC)  develops  qualification  and  certification  standards,  guidelines, and protocols, the Air Force will adopt them and ensure SMEs are adequately trained and credentialed.  Currently ICs for Air Force installations during incidents that require more than two response agencies are required specific training identified in AFI 10-2501. A2.5.3.  ICS Span of Control.  Span of control is integral to effective and efficient incident management.  The term manageable span of control is defined as "the number of resources or  organizational  elements  that  one  supervisor  can  manage  effectively.‖    Maintaining adequate span of control throughout the ICS organization is very important.  Typical span of control is 3-7 per supervisor with five being ideal.  The IC makes this determination based on the  size  and  type  of  incident;  for  example,  a  vehicle  accident  may  not  require  additional response  personnel,  but  a  mass  casualty  incident  with  multiple  incidents  may  require  a significant DRF capability. A2.6.  Command  Staff.  The  command  staff  is  responsible  for  overall  management  of  the incident.  This includes command staff assignments required to support the command function.  In  an  incident  management  organization,  the  command  staff  consists  of  the  IC  and  the  staff positions of PIO, ISO, liaison officer, and other positions as required, who report directly to the IC.  They may have an assistant or assistants, as needed. A2.6.1.  Command Function.  The command function may be conducted in one of two ways: single command IC or UC.  When an incident occurs within a single jurisdiction and there is no jurisdictional or functional agency overlap, a single IC should be designated with overall incident management responsibility by the appropriate jurisdictional authority.  Installations should consider designating functional ICs in their CEMP 10-2. A2.6.1.1.  UC Operations.  UC is an important element in multi-jurisdictional or multi-agency  incident  management.    It  provides  guidelines  to  enable  agencies  with  different legal,  geographic,  and  functional  responsibilities  to  coordinate,  plan,  and  interact effectively.  UC overcomes much of the inefficiency and duplication of effort that can occur when agencies from different functional and geographic jurisdictions, or agencies at  different  levels  of  government,  operate  without  a  common  system  or  organizational framework.    As  a  team,  the  multi  jurisdictional  or  multi-agencies  jointly  determine objectives,  strategies,  plans,  and  priorities  and  work  together  to  execute  integrated incident operations and maximize the use of assigned resources.  The exact composition of  the  UC  structure  will  depend  on  the  location  of  the  incident,  which  geographical 52 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 administrative  jurisdictions  are  involved,  the  type  of  incident,  and  which  functional agencies of the involved jurisdiction are required.  In the case of some multi-jurisdictions incidents, the designation of a single IC may be considered to promote greater unity of effort and efficiency. A2.6.1.1.1.  On  Base.    When  an  incident  crosses  jurisdictional  or  functional responsibility boundaries and outside agencies are called upon to assist in emergency responses occurring on the installation, they may become part of a UC and fall under the authority of the  IC.  UC would have  IC representatives for each jurisdiction or function  from  the  supporting  agencies  and  one  selected  spokesperson  on  the installation.  Based on the intent here, they normally would either be a liaison within the Command Staff or part of the Operations Section.  An example would be if the local law enforcement in an area with concurrent jurisdiction was needed to provide support on the installation for a domestic violence incident with injuries requiring fire department personnel (medical) and an off base ambulance provider used as part of established MAAs. A2.6.1.1.2.  Off Base.  There are specific circumstances when military resources can and should be used to support civilian major accidents or natural disaster response and recovery efforts.  These situations and procedures may be in the form of mutual support  agreements  as  outlined  in  AFI  10-802.    All  AF  personnel  participating  in these operations will organize using the AFIMS, directly supporting incident tactical objectives for local authorities, and will remain under military operational control at all times.  An example of off base UC would be when first and emergency responders from  the  DRF  merge  with  their  civilian  counterparts  to  establish  initial  response through recovery operations outside the perimeter of the installation. A2.6.1.2.  Area  Command  Operations.    An  Area  Command  is  established  when  the complexity  of  the  incident  and  incident  management  span-of-control  considerations  so dictate.  Generally, the agency having jurisdictional responsibility for the incident makes the decision to establish an Area Command.  The purpose of an Area Command is either to  oversee  the  management  of  multiple  incidents  that  are  each  being  handled  by  a separate  ICS  organization,  or  to  oversee  the  management  of  a  very  large  or  complex incident  that  has  multiple  incident  management  teams  engaged.    Area  Command  will usually be established in wartime operations. A2.6.1.2.1.  On Base.  When an incident occurs on the base that requires multiple ICs, an Area Command may be established.  The EOC Director will assume the role of Area Command commander.  For example, an Area Command is established during disaster recovery efforts to restore the mission of the installation with varied activities such  as  search  and  rescue,  damage  assessments,  road  and  facility  repairs,  utility repairs, and debris clearance taking place and with limited resources. A2.6.1.2.2.  Off  Base.    An  area  command  can  extend  beyond  the  confines  of  the installation if the incident requires the establishment of an NDA. A2.6.2.  Additional positions on the staff may be necessary, depending on the nature, scope, complexity, and location of the incident or according to specific requirements established by the IC.  For example, a legal counsel may be assigned directly to the command staff to advise AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 53 the IC on legal matters, such as emergency proclamations, legality of evacuation orders, and legal rights and restrictions pertaining to media access. A2.6.3.  Incident Public Information Officer  (PIO).  Under the  ICS, the PIO is  a key staff member, normally working out of the ICP and assigned as part of the command staff.  Within the Air Force, the PIO position is filled by a representative from the Public Affairs Office (PAO).  The PIO has primary responsibility for releasing information to the public, but may rely  on  a  SME  on-scene  to  gather  accurate  information  for  use  in  the  release.    The  PIO represents and advises the IC on all public information matters relating to the management of the incident.  The PIO handles media and public inquiries, emergency public information and warnings, rumor monitoring and response, media monitoring, and other functions required to coordinate,  clear  with  appropriate  authorities,  and  disseminate  accurate  and  timely information  related  to  the  incident,  particularly  regarding  information  on  public  health, safety, and protection.  The PIO is also responsible for coordinating public information at or near the incident site and serving as the on-scene link to the Joint Information System (JIS).  In  a  large-scale  operation,  the  on-scene  PIO  serves  as  a  field  PIO  with  links  to  the  Joint Information  Center  (JIC),  which  is  typically  collocated  with  the  Federal,  regional,  State, local, or tribal EOC tasked with primary incident coordination responsibilities.  The PIO may choose to use a JIC at a pre-designated location for many incidents as a method for control and providing a single site for local reporters, television crews, and others to gather.  Besides serving as the obvious point to obtain information, a JIC assists in the control of these groups and gives them an assembly point.  The JIS provides the mechanism for integrating public information activities among JICs, across jurisdictions, and with private sector and NGO. A2.6.3.1.  During  emergencies,  the  public  may  receive  information  from  a  variety  of sources.  The JIC provides a location for organizations participating in the management of an incident to work together to ensure that timely, accurate, easy-to-understand, and consistent information is disseminated to the public.  The JIC comprises representatives from each organization involved in the management of an incident.  In large or complex incidents,  particularly  those  involving  complex  medical  and  public  health  information requirements, JICs may be established at various levels of government.  All JICs must communicate  and  coordinate  with  each  other  on  an  ongoing  basis.    Public  awareness functions must also be coordinated with the information and operational security matters that  are  the  responsibility  of  the  information  and  intelligence  function  of  the  ICS, particularly when public awareness activities affect information or OPSEC. A2.6.4.  Incident Safety Officer.  The Incident Safety Officer (ISO), as part of the command staff, monitors incident operations and advises the IC on all matters relating to operational safety, including the health and safety of emergency responder personnel.  Normally, the ISO is from the functional area with primary incident response responsibility.  ISO duties can be assumed  by  someone  with  another  function  (dual  responsibility)  or  can  be  a  separate position; normally working out of the ICP.  The ultimate responsibility for the safe conduct of incident management operations rests with the IC or UC and supervisors at all levels of incident management.  The ISO is, in turn, responsible to the IC for the set of systems and procedures necessary to ensure ongoing assessment of hazardous environments, coordination of  multi-agency  safety  efforts,  and  implementation  of  measures  to  promote  emergency responder  safety,  as  well  as  the  general  safety  of  incident  operations.    Therefore,  the  ISO should be intimately familiar with the operations being performed and, when HAZMAT are 54 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 involved, certified at the level of operations being performed (operations, technician, etc.).  Normally, the ISO is from the functional area with primary incident response responsibility.  Within  the  EOC,  the  installation  safety  officer  serves  in  an  advisory  capacity  to  the  EOC director for overall incident safety planning issues. A2.6.4.1.  ISO.  The ISO has emergency authority to prevent or stop unsafe acts during HAZMAT incident operations.  In a UC structure, a single ISO should be designated, in spite  of  the  fact  that  multiple  jurisdictions  and  functional  agencies  may  be  involved.  Assistants  may  be  required  and  may  be  assigned  from  other  agencies  or  departments constituting the UC.  The ISO, operations section chief and planning section chief must coordinate  closely  regarding  operational  safety  and  emergency  responder  health  and safety issues.  The ISO must also ensure the coordination of safety management functions and  issues  across  jurisdictions,  across  functional  agencies,  and  with  private  sector  and NGO.   The  agencies,  organizations,  or  jurisdictions  that  contribute  to  joint  safety management efforts do not lose their individual identities or responsibility for their own programs, policies, and personnel.  Each entity contributes to the overall effort to protect all responder personnel involved in incident operations. A2.6.4.2.  Within the Area Command construct, normally a Safety Officer is not present.  Safety responsibilities reside at the incident site with the Incident Commander. A2.6.5.  Incident Liaison Officer (LNO).  The LNO is the point of contact for representatives of  other  governmental  agencies,  NGO,  and  private  entities.    In  the  ICS  structure, representatives from assisting or cooperating agencies and organizations coordinate through the LNO.  Representatives assigned to an incident must have the authority to speak for their parent agencies or organizations on all matters, following appropriate consultations with their leadership.  Assistants and personnel from other agencies or organizations (public or private) involved  in  incident  management  activities  may  be  assigned  to  the  LNO  to  facilitate coordination.  In most AF incidents, LNOs will work out of the EOC with the ESFs as part of the AFIMS EOC organizational structure.  LNOs may also work out of the ICP as part of the command staff. A2.6.6.  Recommended  Organizational  Structure  and  Responsibilities.    The  following paragraphs discuss the recommended organizational structure and responsibilities of the ICS and  its  General  Staff.    This  organizational  structure  will  be  required  when  the  incident evolves to the point where on-scene capabilities are required to maintain the incident in an effective  manner  while  still  maintaining  the  ICS  as  required  by  NIMS.    Normally  at  this stage, the EOC  and the  necessary ESFs should  be operational, with  communications links established  through  the  ICP.    It  should  be  noted  that  a  functional  area  might  have representatives in more than one section.  For example, EOD personnel may be part of both the operations and planning sections. A2.7.  General  Staff.  The  general  staff  is  composed  of  the  group  of  incident  management personnel that represent the major functional elements of any command to include the operations section  chief,  planning  section  chief,  logistics  section  chief,  and  finance  and  administration section  chief.    This  staff  is  only  established  to  perform  tactical-level  incident  management activities at the incident site. A2.7.1.  Operations Section.  Tactical operations at the incident include all activities directed toward reduction of the immediate hazard, establishing situation control, and restoration of AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 55 normal  operations.    Each  incident  is  different;  branches,  groups  or  divisions  may  be established  as  needed  based  on  the  nature  of  the  incident  and  span  of  control  needs.    A division  is  that  organizational  level  having  responsibility  for  operations  within  a  defined geographic  area.    Groups  are  established  to  divide  the  incident  into  functional  areas  of operation.    A  branch  is  that  organizational  level  having  functional,  geographical,  or jurisdictional  responsibility  for  major  parts  of  the  incident  operations.    However,  several different ways to organize incident management operations are acceptable.  In some cases, the selected method will be determined based upon the availability of personnel.  In other cases,  a  strictly  functional  approach  will  be  used.    In  still  others,  a  mix  of  functional  and geographical considerations may be appropriate.  Figure A2.3 reflects an operations section set  up  according  to  AF  Specialty,  but  the  section  can  also  be  set-up  functionally  to  avoid stovepipe operations.  The ICS offers flexibility in determining the right approach based on the specific circumstances of the incident. Figure A2.3.  Sample ICS Organizational Structure within the Operations Section.  A2.7.2.  Operations Chief and Deputies.  The operations section chief is responsible for the direct  management  of  all  incident  tactical  activities.    The  operations  section  chief  will establish tactical strategies for each operational period, with all branch chiefs and unit leaders establishing their own supporting tactics.  The section chief may have one or more deputies assigned, with deputies from other agencies encouraged in multi-jurisdictional incidents.  A section  chief  should  be  designated  for  each  operational  period  and  should  have  direct involvement in the preparation of the IAP for the period of responsibility. A2.7.3.  Staging Area Manager.  The staging area manager is responsible for managing all staging area activities.  The staging area manager reports to the operations section chief or to the IC if the operations section chief position has not been filled.  In some jurisdictions, the staging area is established as part of the logistics section, requiring the staging area manager to report to the logistics chief.  However, regardless of section assignment, the duties of the 56 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 staging area manager remain the same.  Staging area manager responsibilities are listed in Table A2.2. Table A2.2.  Staging Area Manager Responsibilities. Establish layout of staging area. Post areas for identification and traffic control. Provide check-in for incoming resources. Determine required resource reserve levels from the operations section chief, logistics section chief, or IC. Advise the operations section chief, logistics section chief, or IC when reserve levels approach minimums. Maintain and provide status to resource unit of all resources in staging area. Respond to operations section chief, logistics section chief, or IC requests for resources. Request logistical support for personnel and/or equipment as needed. Maintain staging area in an orderly condition. Demobilize or move staging area as required. Maintain unit log. A2.7.4.  Operations Branches.  Branches may be established to serve several purposes.   In general,  branches  are  established  when  the  number  of  divisions  or  groups  exceeds  the recommended span of control (between 3:1 to 7:1) for the operations section chief. A2.7.5.  Operations  Divisions.    Divisions  are  established  when  the  number  of  resources exceeds  the  span  of  control  of  the  operations  section  chief.    Divisions  are  established  to divide an incident into physical or geographical areas of operation. A2.7.6.  Operations Groups.  Groups are established when the number of resources exceeds the  span  of  control  of  the  operations  section  chief.    Groups  are  established  to  divide  the incident into functional areas of operation.  For certain types of incidents, for example, the IC may establish intelligence functions as a functional group in the operations section. A2.7.7.  Resources.  Resources refer to the combination of personnel and equipment required to  enable  incident  management  operations.    Resources  may  be  organized  and  managed  in three different ways, depending on the requirements  of the incident: single  resources, task forces, or strike teams. A2.7.7.1.  Single Resources.  These are individual personnel and equipment items and the operators associated with them. A2.7.7.2.  Task  Forces.    A  task  force  is  any  combination  of  resources  assembled  in support of a specific mission or operational need.  All resource elements within a Task Force must have common communications and a designated leader. A2.7.7.3.  Strike Teams.  Strike teams are set numbers of resources of the same kind and type that have an established minimum number of personnel.  The use of strike teams and task forces is encouraged, wherever possible, to optimize the use of resources, reduce the span  of  control  over  large  numbers  of  single  resources,  and  reduce  the  complexity  of incident management coordination and communications. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 57 A2.8.  Planning  Section.  The  planning  section  collects,  evaluates,  and  disseminates  incident situation  information  (including  unclassified  intelligence  information),  prepares  status  reports, displays  situation  information,  maintains  status  of  resources  assigned  to  the  incident,  and develops the IAP.  Much of the work of this section can be accomplished by personnel in the EOC (if activated) and coordinated with the operations and logistics section chiefs and IC. A2.8.1.  As shown in Figure A2.4 the planning section has five primary units and may have a  number  of  technical  specialists  to  assist  in  evaluating  the  situation  and  forecasting requirements for additional personnel and equipment. Figure A2.4.  Sample ICS Planning Section Organization.  A2.8.2.  The  planning  section  is  responsible  for  gathering  and  disseminating  information critical  to  the  incident,  unless  the  IC  places  the  function  elsewhere.    Traditionally, information and intelligence functions are located in the planning section.  The information and intelligence function, regardless of placement within the ICS structure, includes not only national  security  or  other  types  of  classified  information  but  also  operational  information such  as  risk  assessments,  medical  intelligence  (i.e.  surveillance),  weather  information, geospatial data, structural designs, toxic contaminant levels, and utilities and infrastructure data.    This  information  may  come  from  a  variety  of  different  sources,  such  as  installation Intelligence,  Civil  Engineering,  Medical  Group,  Weather,  and  the  Office  of  Special Investigations.   The  planning  section  is  also  responsible  for  developing  the  IAP.    See paragraph 4.3, of this document for additional details. A2.8.2.1.  Resources  Unit.    Physical  resources  consist  of  personnel,  teams,  facilities, supplies,  and  major  items  of  equipment  available  for  assignment  to  or  employment during incidents.  The resources unit is responsible for ensuring assigned personnel and other resources are accounted for at the incident scene.  This unit should have a system for keeping track of the current location and status of all assigned resources and should maintain a master list of all resources committed to incident operations. 58 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 A2.8.2.1.1.  Managing  Resources.    For  effective  management  of  their  employment, resources  must  be  categorized  by  capability  and  capacity  across  disciplines  and tracked  continuously  as  to  status.    Tracking  tactical  resources  at  an  incident  is necessary for maintaining an up-to-date and accurate picture of resource status.  The three resource status conditions are shown in Table A2.3. Table A2.3.  Resource Status Conditions. Resource Status Assigned Resources Available Resources Out of Service Resources Condition Personnel, teams, equipment, or facilities that are checked in or receipted for and are supporting incident operations. Personnel, teams, equipment, or facilities that have been assigned to an incident and are ready for a specific work detail or function. Personnel, teams, equipment, or facilities that have been assigned to an incident but are unable to function for mechanical, rest, or personal reasons or because their condition makes them unusable. A2.8.2.1.2.  Changes in Status.  Normally, the individual who changes the status of a resource,  such  as  equipment  location,  is  responsible  for  promptly  informing  the resources  unit,  who  will  then  report  the  status  change  to  the  EOC  through  their respective ESF and request assistance as necessary. A2.8.2.2.  Situation Unit.  The situation unit collects, processes, and organizes ongoing situation  information;  prepares  situation  summaries;  and  develops  projections  and forecasts of future events related to the incident.  The situation unit also prepares maps, gathers, and disseminates information and intelligence for use in the IAP.  This unit may also require the expertise of technical specialists and operations and information security specialists, and if additional information is required, the unit will request support through the EOC. A2.8.2.3.  Documentation  Unit.    The  documentation  unit  maintains  accurate  and complete incident files, including a complete record of the major steps taken to resolve the incident; provides duplication services to incident personnel; and files, maintains, and stores incident files for legal, analytical, and historical purposes.  Documentation is part of the planning section primarily because this unit prepares the IAP and maintains many of the files and records that are developed as part of the overall planning function. A2.8.2.4.  Technical  Specialists.    The  ICS  is  designed  to  function  in  a  wide  variety  of incident  scenarios  requiring  the  use  of  technical  specialists.    These  uniquely  skilled personnel  are  activated  only  when  needed.    Technical  specialists  may  serve  anywhere within the organization,  including the  command  staff.   No minimum qualifications are prescribed since technical specialists normally perform the same duties during an incident that they perform in their everyday jobs, and they are typically specially certified in their fields or professions.  Because many technical specialists will likely be working in duties within the ESF, requests should be made through the EOC. A2.8.2.4.1.  Technical specialists assigned to the planning section may report directly to its chief, may report to any function in an existing unit, or may form a separate AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 59 technical  unit  within  the  planning  section,  depending  on  the  requirements  of  the incident  and  the  needs  of  the  section  chief.    Technical  specialists  may  also  be assigned to other parts of the organization (e.g. to the operations section to assist with tactical matters or to the finance/administration section to assist with fiscal matters).  Generally, if the expertise is needed for only a short period, and normally involves only one individual, that individual should be assigned to the situation unit.  If the technical  expertise  will  be  required  on  a  long-term  basis,  it  is  advisable  to  request additional support from the EOC. A2.8.2.4.2.  The incident itself will primarily dictate the need for technical specialists.  Table A2.4 lists examples of the kinds of specialists that may be required. Table A2.4.  Examples of Representative Specialists. Weather Environmental Impact  Finance  CE Utilities  Explosive Ordnance Disposal  Structural Engineering  CE Environmental  Radiation Safety Officer Public Health Emergency Officer  Bioenvironmental Engineer EM Fire Emergency Services  Medical and/or Healthcare  Medical Intelligence  Pharmaceutical  Veterinarian Agricultural  Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Transportation Security Forces Legal A2.8.2.4.3.  A  specific  example  of  the  need  to  establish  a  distinct  technical  unit within the general staff is the requirement to coordinate and manage large volumes of environmental  sampling  and/or  analytical  data  from  multiple  sources  following incidents  involving  biological,  chemical,  and  radiation  hazards.    To  meet  this requirement, an environmental unit could be established within the planning section to  facilitate  interagency  environmental  data  management,  monitoring,  sampling, analysis, and assessment.  The environmental unit would prepare environmental data for  the  situation  unit  and  work  in  close  coordination  with  other  units  and  sections within  the  ICS  structure  to  enable  effective  decision  support  to  the  IC.    Technical specialists  assigned  to  the  environmental  unit  might  include  a  scientific  support coordinator and sampling, response technologies, weather forecast, resources at risk, cleanup  assessment,  and  disposal  technical  specialists.    Table  A2.5  provides examples of the types of tasks an environmental unit may perform. Table A2.5.  Environmental Unit Tasks. Identifying sensitive areas and recommending response priorities. Developing a plan for collecting, transporting, and analyzing samples. Providing input on wildlife protection strategies. Determining the extent and effects of site contamination. Developing site cleanup and HAZMAT disposal plans. Identifying the need for and obtaining permits and other authorizations. 60 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009   The  demobilization  unit  develops  an A2.8.2.5.  Demobilization  Unit. incident demobilization plan that includes specific instructions for all personnel and resources that will  require  demobilization.    This  unit  should  begin  its  work  early  in  the  incident, creating  rosters  of  personnel  and  resources  and  obtaining  any  missing  information  as check-in procedures.  Most installation resources do not require specific demobilization instructions;  however,  when  responding  to  off  base  incidents,  the  demobilization  unit ensures personnel are formally released and departure is authorized and documented by the appropriate authority.  Once the incident demobilization plan has been approved, the demobilization unit ensures that it is distributed at both the incident and elsewhere.   It also  keeps  the  EOC  director  informed  on  the  status  of  the  demobilization  efforts  and requests support as needed. A2.8.3.  Logistics  Section.    The  Logistics  Section  provides  all  logistical  support  to  the incident, including ordering resources from off-incident locations.  As with plans, many of the logistics section tasks will be completed by those in the EOC if not completed on scene by  the  IC.    Figure  A2.5  illustrates  how  the  Logistics  Section  is  organized  to  provide resources for emergency responders at the incident. Figure A2.5.  Sample ICS Logistics Section Organization.  A2.8.3.1.  Service  Branch.    The  service  branch  houses  the  communications  unit,  food service unit, and the medical unit.   The  communications  unit  develops A2.8.3.1.1.  Communications  Unit. the communications  plan  to  make  the  most  effective  use  of  the  communications equipment and facilities assigned to the incident, installs and tests all communications equipment,  supervises  and  operates  the  incident  communications  center,  distributes and  recovers  communications  equipment  assigned  to  incident  personnel,  and maintains and repairs communications equipment on site.  The communications unit’s major  responsibility  is  effective  communications  planning  for  the  ICS.    ESF  2-Communications can complete this responsibility through coordination with the other ESFs, IC, and the EOC director.  Due to the static nature of frequencies and radios on AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 61 most AF installations, this plan can be pre-written and simply verified at the onset of the  incident.    The  plan  may  not  work  if  outside  agencies  respond  on  base  or  the installation responders go off  base.  Communications Unit activities are critical for determining required radio nets, establishing frequency assignments, and ensuring the interoperability and the optimal use of all assigned communications capabilities. A2.8.3.1.1.1.  The communications unit leader should attend all incident planning meetings to ensure that the communication systems available for the incident can support  tactical  operations  planned  for  the  next  operational  period.    Incident communications are managed using a common communications plan, an incident-based  communications  center  established  solely  for  the  use  of  tactical,  and support  resources  assigned  to  the  incident.    Advance  planning  is  required  to ensure that an appropriate communications system is available to support incident operations  requirements.    This  planning  includes  the  development  of  frequency inventories, frequency-use agreements, and radio caches.  Most complex incidents will require an incident communications plan. A2.8.3.1.1.2.  The  communications  unit  is  responsible  for  planning  the  use  of radio frequencies; establishing networks for command, tactical, support, and air units; setting up on-site telephone and public address equipment; and providing any  required  off-incident  communication  links.    Codes  should  not  be  used  for radio  communication;  a  clear  spoken  message—based  on  common  terminology that  avoids  misunderstanding  in  complex  and  noisy  situations—reduces  the chances for error.  Radio networks for large incidents will normally be organized as detailed in Table A2.6 Table A2.6.  Radio Networks. TYPE OF NET Command Net Tactical Net Support Net Ground-to-Air Net Air-to-Air Net PURPOSE Links together incident command, command staff, section chiefs, branch directors, and division and group supervisors. Connects agencies, departments, geographical areas, or specific functional units.  Several tactical nets may be established.  The planning, operations, and logistics functions will jointly determine how nets are set up, and the communications unit will develop the overall plan. Handles changes in resource status, logistical requests, and other non-tactical functions. Coordinates ground-to-air traffic.  A specific tactical frequency may be designated, or regular tactical nets may be used. Coordinates air-to-air traffic.  Air-to-air nets will normally be pre-designated and assigned for use at the incident. A2.8.3.1.2.  Medical Unit.  The medical unit provides effective and efficient medical services  to  incident  personnel.    Most  Air  Force  incidents  will  require  that  an ambulance standby for responder care.  At large, complex, or lengthy incidents, this capability  may  be  established  in  a  nearby  facility  or  tent.    The  medical  unit  will develop a medical plan as part of the IAP.  The medical plan should provide specific information  on  medical  assistance  capabilities  at  incident  locations,  potential 62 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 hazardous  areas  or  conditions,  off-site  medical  assistance  facilities,  and  procedures for  handling  complex  medical  emergencies.    The  medical  unit  will  also  assist  the finance/administration section with the administrative requirements related to injury compensation,  including  obtaining  written  authorizations,  billing  forms,  witness statements, administrative medical documents, and reimbursement as required.  The medical unit will ensure patient privacy to the fullest extent possible.  Patient care and medical services for incident victims and survivors are critical operational activities.  As such, these activities are incorporated into the IAP as key considerations of the planning and operations sections.  These sections should be staffed accordingly with appropriately  qualified  EMS  public  health  personnel,  medical  personnel,  technical experts, and other professional personnel, as required.  The primary responsibilities of the medical unit are listed in Table A2.7 Table A2.7.  Medical Unit Responsibilities. Develop the incident medical plan for incident personnel. Develop procedures for handling any major medical emergency involving incident personnel. Provide continuity of medical care, including vaccinations, vector control, occupational health, prophylaxis, and mental health services for incident personnel. Coordinate transportation for injured incident personnel. Ensure that incident personnel patients are tracked as they move from origin, to care facility, to final disposition. Assist in processing all paperwork related to injuries or deaths of incident personnel. Coordinate with the Force Support Squadron on personnel and mortuary affairs actions involving incident fatalities. Ensure the medical plan is reviewed and approved by the ISO prior to inclusion in the IAP. A2.8.3.1.3.  Food  Service  Unit.    The  food  service  unit  determines  food  and  water requirements,  plans  menus,  orders  food,  provides  cooking  facilities,  cooks,  serves, maintains  food  service  areas,  and  manages  food  security  and  safety  concerns.  Efficient  food  service  is  important,  but  especially  so  for  any  large,  complex,  or extended incident.  The food service unit must be able to anticipate incident needs, both in terms of the number of people who will need to be fed and whether the type, location,  or  complexity  of  the  incident  indicates  that  there  may  be  special  food requirements.  The unit must supply food needs for the entire incident, including all remote locations such as camps and staging areas.  The unit must also provide food service to personnel who are unable to leave their operational assignments.  Careful planning  and  monitoring  is  required  to  ensure  food  safety  throughout  food  service operations.  This planning may include the assignment, as indicated, of public health professionals with expertise in environmental health and food safety.  The installation Force Support Squadron (FSS), through ESF 6-Mass Care, will provide this support for extended or large incidents.  A full food service unit is not required for smaller incidents,  although  water  and  quick  snacks  for  responder  rehydration,  rest,  and rehabilitation are needed.  Feeding victims is a critical operational activity, which will AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 63 be incorporated into the  IAP.  The  food  service  unit must interact closely with the following elements shown in Figure A2.6 in addition to the appropriate ESFs. Figure A2.6.  Food Service Unit.  A2.8.3.2.  Support Branch.  The support branch houses the supply unit, the facilities unit, the  ground  support  unit,  and  the  maintenance  unit.    When  resources  are  not  readily available, there may be a need to work with the finance/admin section, specifically the procurement unit staffed with base contracting personnel.  Support requirements should be requested through the EOC or appropriate ESF as needed. A2.8.3.2.1.  Supply Unit.  The supply unit orders, receives, stores, and processes all incident-related resources, personnel, and supplies.  Once established, the supply unit also  has  the  basic  responsibility  for  all  off-site  ordering,  including  all  tactical  and support  resources  (including  personnel),  and  all  expendable  and  nonexpendable supplies required for incident support.  The supply unit provides the support required to receive, process, store, and distribute all supply orders.  The unit also handles tool operations, which include storing, disbursing, and servicing of all tools and portable, nonexpendable equipment.  At most incidents on AF installations, this effort will be completed by ESF 7-Resources using normal AF supply channels and processes. A2.8.3.2.2.  Facilities Unit.  The facilities unit sets up, maintains, and demobilizes all facilities  used  in  support  of  incident  operations.    The  unit  also  provides  facility maintenance  and  security  services  required  to  support  incident  operations.    The facilities  unit  sets  up  the  ICP,  the  incident  base  and  camps,  as  well  as  trailers  and other forms of shelter for use in and around the incident area.  The incident base and camps  may  often  be  established  in  areas  having  existing  structures,  which  may  be used  in  their  entirety  or  only  in  part.    The  facilities  unit  also  provides  and  sets  up necessary  personnel  support  facilities,  including  areas  for  food  and  water  service, 64 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 sleeping, sanitation, and staging.  This unit also orders additional support items, such as portable toilets, shower facilities, and lighting units.  Providing shelter for incident victims is a critical operational activity and will be incorporated into the IAP.  These taskings will be completed by several of the ESF functions within the EOC, primarily ESF 3-Public Works (CE), ESF 6-Mass Care (FSS), and ESF 7-Resources (LRS). A2.8.3.2.3.  Ground Support Unit.  Ground support unit activities will be completed by several of the ESF functions within the EOC, primarily ESFs 1-Transportation and ESF 7-Resources.  Ground support unit responsibilities are listed in Table A2.8 Table A2.8.  Ground Support Unit Responsibilities. Maintains and repairs primary tactical equipment, vehicles, and mobile ground support equipment.   Records usage time for all ground equipment (including contract equipment) assigned to the incident. Supplies fuel for all mobile equipment. Provides transportation in support of incident operations (except aircraft). Develops and implements the incident traffic plan. Maintains a transportation pool for major incidents.  This pool consists of vehicles (e.g. staff cars, buses, pick-ups) that are suitable for transporting personnel. Provides up-to-date information on the location and status of transportation vehicles to the resources unit. A2.8.3.2.4.  Maintenance  Unit.   The  maintenance  unit’s  primary  function  is maintaining and servicing vehicles and mobile equipment.  ESF functions within the EOC,  primarily  ESF  1-Transportation,  will  provide  resources  for  the  maintenance unit. A2.8.4.  Finance  and  Administration  Section.    A  finance  and  administration  section  is established when agencies involved in an incident require finance and other administrative services.  Not all agencies will require a separate finance and administration section.  In cases that require only one specific function (e.g. cost analysis) the service can be provided by a technical specialist in the Planning Section.  The basic organizational structure for a finance and administration section is shown in Figure A2.7 A2.8.4.1.  Time Unit.  The  time unit is  primarily responsible for ensuring proper daily recording of personnel time IAW the policies of the relevant agencies.  The time unit also ensures that the logistics section records or captures equipment usage time through the ground support unit for ground equipment and through the air operations support group for aircraft.  If applicable (depending on the agencies involved), personnel time records will be collected and processed for each operational period.  The unit leader may require the assistance of personnel familiar with the relevant policies of any  affected agencies.  These records must be verified, checked for accuracy, and posted according to existing policies.  Excess hours worked must also be determined, for which separate logs must be maintained. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 65 Figure A2.7.  Sample ICS Finance and Administration Section Organization.  A2.8.4.2.  Procurement  Unit.    The  procurement  unit  administers  all  financial  matters pertaining to vendor contracts.  This unit coordinates with local jurisdictions to identify sources for equipment, prepares and signs equipment rental agreements, and processes all administrative  requirements  associated  with  equipment  rental  and  supply  contracts.    In some  agencies,  the  supply  unit  in  the  logistics  section  will  be  responsible  for  certain procurement activities.  The procurement unit will also work closely with local Cost Unit authorities. A2.8.4.3.  Compensation  and  Claims  Unit.    Under  ICS,  a  single  unit  handles  injury compensation and claims.  The specific activities may not always be accomplished by the same  person.    The  individual  handling  injury  compensation  ensures  that  all  forms required  by  workers’  compensation  programs  and  local  agencies  are  completed.    This individual also maintains files on injuries and illnesses associated with the incident and ensure that all witness statements are obtained in writing.  Since the  medical unit may also  perform  some  of  these  tasks,  close  coordination  between  the  medical  and compensation and claims units is essential.  The claims function handles investigations of all civil tort claims involving property associated with or involved in the incident.  The compensation and claims unit maintains logs on the claims, obtains witness statements, and documents investigations and agency follow-up requirements. A2.8.4.4.  Cost Unit.  The cost unit provides cost analysis data for the incident.  This unit must  ensure  that  equipment  and  personnel  for  which  payment  is  required  are  properly identified, obtain and record all cost data, and analyze and prepare estimates of incident costs.  The cost unit also provides input on cost estimates for resource use to the planning section.    The  cost  unit  must  maintain  accurate  information  on  the  actual  costs  of  all assigned  resources.    An  Air  Force  example  may  be  that  civil  service  employees  were required to work overtime on multiple occasions during the incident. A2.8.5.  Information and Intelligence Function.  This function is an optional tool for the IC to use where incidents warrant its creation.  The sharing of information and intelligence is an important component of ICS.  In this context, intelligence includes not only national security or  other  types  of  classified  information  but  also  operational  information,  such  as  risk assessments, weather information, geospatial data, structural designs, and utilities and public works  data,  which  may  come  from  a  variety  of  sources.    Traditionally,  information  and intelligence functions are located in the planning section; however, in exceptional situations, the IC may need to assign the information and intelligence functions to other parts of the ICS organization. 66 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 A2.8.5.1.  Intelligence must be shared with personnel designated by the IC who have  a need to know to ensure that the shared intelligence supports decision-making.  It is not necessary that every detail be provided to those in a need-to-know status; (e.g. it is not important that fire department responders know that an ongoing investigation is focused on any specific person(s) concerning  a drug operation, but it would be critical for fire department leadership to know a methamphetamine lab may exist in a particular off base housing area immediately outside the gate so proper precautions may be taken to protect responders.)    The  intelligence  function  in  an  incident  may  be  organized  in  one  of  the following ways: A2.8.5.2.  Within  the  ICS  Command  Staff.    This  option  may  be  most  appropriate  in incidents with little need for tactical intelligence or where the intelligence is provided by supporting agency representatives. A2.8.5.3.  As  a  Branch  within  the  Operations  Section.    This  option  may  be  most appropriate  in  incidents  with  a  greater  need  for  tactical  information  and  intelligence, where a specific functional area is not part of the command staff, such as severe weather forecasts or law enforcement agency. A2.8.5.4.  As  a  Separate  Branch  or  Division.    This  may  be  most  appropriate  where  an incident  is  heavily  driven  by  information  and  intelligence  factors,  such  as  a  natural disaster  or  terrorist  incidents,  especially  those  involving  use  of  CBRNE,  or  when  an expectation of additional attacks may occur. Table A2.9.  ICS Checklist Planning Responsibilities and Specific Planning Activities. General Responsibilities. Planning Section Chief Incident Commander Finance Section Chief Operations Section Chief Logistics Section Chief The general responsibilities associated with the planning meeting and the development of the IAP are described below.  The planning section chief should review these with the general staff prior to the planning meeting. Conduct the planning meeting and coordinate preparation of the IAP. Provide overall control objectives and strategy. Establish procedures for off-incident resource ordering. Establish procedures for resource activation, mobilization, and employment. Approve completed IAP plan by signature when IAP is written. Provide cost implications of control objectives, as required. Evaluate facilities being used to determine if any special arrangements are needed. Ensure that the IAP is within the financial limits established by the IC. Determine division work assignments and resource requirements. Ensure that incident facilities are adequate. Ensure that the resource ordering procedure is made known to appropriate agency dispatch center(s). Develop a transportation system to support operational needs. Ensure that the section can logistically support the IAP. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 67 Place order(s) for resources. Preplanning Steps: Understanding the Problem and Establishing Objectives and Strategy Planning Section Chief Conducting the Planning Meeting Planning Section Chief Incident Commander Operations Section Operations Section/Planning Section Operations Section/Planning Section/Logistics Section Logistics Section The planning section chief should take the following actions prior to the initial planning meeting (if possible, obtaining a complete incident briefing.) Evaluate the current situation and decide whether current planning is adequate for the remainder of the operational period (i.e. until next plan takes effect). Advise the IC and the operations section chief of any suggested revisions to the current plan, as necessary. Establish a planning cycle for the IC. Determine planning meeting attendees in consultation with the IC.  For major incidents, attendees should include: IC, command staff members, general staff members, resources unit leader, situation unit leader, air operations branch director (if established), communications unit leader, technical and/or specialists (as required), agency representatives (as required). Establish the location and time for the planning meeting. Ensure that planning boards and forms are available. Notify necessary support staff about the meeting and their assignments. Ensure that a current situation and resource briefing will be available for the meeting. Obtain an estimate of regional resource availability from agency dispatch for use in planning for the next operational period. Obtain necessary agency policy, legal, or fiscal constraints for use in the planning meeting. The planning meeting is normally conducted by the planning section chief.  The checklist that follows is intended to provide a basic sequence of steps to aid the planning section chief in developing the IAP.  The planning checklist is used with the ICS planning matrix board.  Every incident must have an action plan.  However, not all incidents require written plans.  The need for written plans and attachments is based on the requirements of the incident and the decision of the IC.  The planning meeting checklist is as follows: Give briefing on situation and resource status.  Set control objectives.  Plot control lines and division boundaries. Specify tactics for each division or group. Specify resources needed by division or group. Specify facilities and reporting locations; plot on map. Place resource and overhead personnel order. 68 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Planning Section/Logistics Section Brief on Situation and Resource Status Set Control Objectives IC Consider communications, medical, and traffic plan requirements. The planning section chief and/or resources and situation unit leaders should provide an up-to-date briefing on the situation.  Information for this briefing may come from any or all of the following sources: Initial IC, incident briefing, field observations, and operation reports. The control objectives are not limited to any single operational period but will consider the total incident situation.  Establish the general strategy to be used. State any major policy, legal, or fiscal constraints on accomplishing the objectives. Offer appropriate contingency considerations. Plot Control Lines and Division Boundaries on Map Operations Section Chief (for the next operational period)/Planning Section Chief Determine control line locations and plot on map. Establish division and branch boundaries for geographical divisions and plot on map. Determine the need for functional group assignments for the next operational period and plot on map. Specify Tactics for Each Division Operations Section Chief IC/Operations Section Chief/Logistics Section Chief Specify Resources Needed by Division Operations Section Chief/Planning Section Chief Establish the specific work assignments to be used for each division for the next operational period.  (Note that it may be necessary or desirable to establish a functional group in addition to geographical divisions.) Tactics (work assignments) must be specific and must be within the boundaries set by the IC’s general control objectives (strategies).  These work assignments should be recorded on the planning matrix. Consider the need for any alternative strategies or tactics and ensure that these are properly noted on the planning matrix. Determine the resource needs by division to accomplish the work assignments.  Resource needs will be recorded on the planning matrix.  Resource needs should be considered on the basis of the type of resources required to accomplish the assignment. Specify Operations Facilities and Reporting Locations and Plot on Map Operations Section Chief Operations Section Chief/Planning Section Chief/Logistics Section Chief Place Resource and Personnel Order Indicate the reporting time requirements for the resources and any special resource assignments. Designate and make available the facilities and reporting locations required to accomplish operations section work assignments. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 69 Planning Section Chief Consider Communications, Medical, and Traffic Plan Requirements Planning Section Chief Resources Unit Assess resource needs using the needs indicated by the operations section chief and resources data available from the planning section’s resources unit.  The planning matrix, when properly completed, will show resource requirements and the resources available to meet those requirements.  Subtracting the resources available from those required will indicate any additional resource needs.  From this assessment, a new resource order can be developed and provided to the IC for approval and then placed through normal dispatch channels by the logistics section. The IAP will normally consist of the incident objectives, organization chart, division assignment list, and a map of the incident area.  Larger incidents may require additional supporting attachments, such as a separate communications plan, a medical plan, and possibly a traffic plan. Determine the need for these attachments and ensure that the appropriate units prepare such attachments.  Prior to the completion of the plan, review the division and group tactical work assignments for any changes due to lack of resource availability. Transfer division assignment information, including alternatives, from the planning matrix board onto the division assignment lists. Finalize, Approve, and Implement the Incident Action Plan Responsible for seeing that the IAP is completed, reviewed, and distributed.  The following is the sequence of steps for accomplishing this:  Set the deadline for completing IAP attachments.  Obtain plan attachments and review them for completeness and approvals.  Determine the number of IAPs required.  Arrange with the documentation unit to reproduce the IAP.  Review the IAP to ensure it is up to date, and complete prior to the operations briefing and plan distribution.  Provide the IAP briefing plan, as required, and distribute the plan prior to the beginning of the new operational period. Finalize, approve, and implement IAP. Planning Section IC/Planning Section/Operations Section  70 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Attachment 3 AIR FORCE EMERGENCY SUPPORT FUNCTIONS (ESF) Table A3.1.  ESF 1, Transportation Responsibilities. Processes and coordinates requests for installation, local, MAJCOM and HAF transportation support as directed under the installation CEMP 10-2. Performs activities conducted under the direct authority of the Logistics Readiness Squadron, such as air, maritime, surface, rail, and pipelines; coordinates and supports prevention, preparedness, and mitigation among transportation infrastructure stakeholders at the installation and MAJCOM levels. Coordinates movement restrictions beyond the incident site; conducts convoy operations, and damage and impact assessments. Coordinates alternate transportation services; coordinates the restoration and recovery of transportation infrastructure. Reports damage to transportation infrastructure because of the incident. Coordinates response, recovery, restoration, safety, and security of the transportation infrastructure during incidents. Coordinates Federal, civil, and nongovernmental agencies’ transportation requirements to support the installation CEMP 10-2 or IAP. Identifies effective means for movement of EM resources using air, maritime, surface, or rail transportation. Coordinates shipment prioritization to ensure timely and prompt delivery of resources into and out of the incident scene. Coordinates with jurisdictional authorities, industry, and ESF 3 (public works and engineering) the damage assessment and impacts of infrastructure transportation capabilities, HAZMAT containment response and movement, and safety- and security-related actions concerning bridge load limits, cargo width limits, movement restrictions, bridge and road closures, quarantines, and movement of personnel during sheltering and evacuations. Develops and implements vehicular support for DRF convoy assembly, and marshalling, and provides safety guidance for EM operations on base and off base when an NDA has been established or during DSCA operations. Coordinates incident scene mobile maintenance repair services for special purpose (emergency response vehicles) and general purpose vehicles to include refueling capabilities for continuity of emergency operations. Applicable references include: AFI 10-2501; AFI 24-201, Cargo Movement; Air Force Joint Manual (AFJMAN) 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicular Drive; AFI 31-104, Air Force Raven Program (FOUO); and NRF. Table A3.2.  ESF 2,  Communication Responsibilities. Provides required telecommunications to support incident operations. Coordinates with the local telecommunications industry, when required, to support incident activities. Conducts restoration, repair of the potentially damaged telecom infrastructure, protection, AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 71 and restoration and sustainment of cyber and information technology (IT) resources managed and coordinated by the Communications Squadron. Coordinates installation information technologies, systems, interoperability, and information transfer to include interpretation and processing of data among persons, places, and machines.  It includes transmission, emission, or reception of signs, signals, writing, images, and sounds or intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical, or other electromagnetic systems, ground-to-ground, or air-to-ground systems to ensure continuity of communications for emergency response and recovery organizations at all jurisdictional levels conducting EM preparedness, response, and recovery operations. Advises the EOC when commercial or installation communications outages are expected in the incident area to enable activation of the National Emergency Coordination Net, a high-frequency radio net that provides backup C2 communications for the DRF. Coordinates CAT actions to provide the required temporary NSEP telecommunications systems such as Hammer ACE mobilization. Performs damage and impact assessments of communications systems during incidents, performs restoration of the telecommunications infrastructure systems, and supports all Federal departments and agencies in the procurement and coordination of all NSEP telecommunications services from the telecommunications and IT industry during an incident response. Table A3.3.  ESF 3, Public Works and Engineering Responsibilities. Coordinates and organizes the capabilities and resources of the installation to facilitate the delivery of services, technical assistance, engineering expertise, construction management, contracting, and real estate services in support of incident CEMP 10-2s and IAPs. Manages, monitors, and/or provides technical advice in the clearance, removal, and disposal of contaminated and uncontaminated debris. Coordinates re-establishment of ground and water routes into impacted areas. Coordinates sampling, classification, packaging, transportation, treatment, demolition, and disposal of contaminated debris and soil with ESF 10.  Coordinates structural and nonstructural mitigation protective measures to minimize adverse effects or fully protect resources impacted by the incident. Coordinates damage assessment and restoration of installation facilities, and infrastructure capabilities. Coordinates emergency repair of damaged infrastructure and critical facilities affected by the incident as directed by the facilities priority list or EOC. Coordinates the identification of damaged and unstable structures that present an immediate hazard to public health and safety. Coordinates demolition operations. Provides structural specialist expertise to support inspection of mass care facilities and urban search and rescue operations. Executes emergency contract support for life saving and life sustaining services. Maintains critical infrastructure liaison with local public works and engineering authorities to ensure continuity of installation services. 72 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Table A3.4.  ESF 4, Firefighting Responsibilities. Supports the IC by coordinating fire detection and suppression activities for EM operations. Supports fire protection and prevention operations on Federal and nonmilitary lands with personnel, equipment, and supplies under the terms of the existing interagency agreements and DSCA requests as directed by the CAT or EOC.  Provides emergency assistance to State, local, or tribal agencies engaged in woodland, rural, and urban firefighting operations. Provides fire service support to the IC for incidents of national significance established in the National Interagency Mobilization Guide through the National Interagency Coordination Center located at the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho. Provides resource support to the IC for rural and urban firefighting operations. Table A3.5.  ESF 5, Emergency Management Responsibilities. Provides multi-agency planning and coordination for operations involving potential and actual major accidents, natural disasters, CBRN attacks, and terrorist use of CBRNE materials. Maintains responsibility for deployment and staffing of emergency response teams. Conducts incident action planning and coordination of operations; logistics and material, direction and control, information management, facilitation of requests for Federal assistance, resource acquisition and management (to include allocation and tracking), worker safety and health, facilities management, financial management, and other support as required. Maintains responsibility for all CBRNE defense operations, coordination of incident management efforts, EOD incident response activities, issuance of mission assignments, resource and human capital needs, incident action planning, financial management, and establishing the common operational picture. Manages, supervises and coordinates the DRF during all AF EM incidents and DSCA requests. Contains the critical managerial and organizational structure of ICS. Provides EM response operations management to conduct incident preparedness, prevention, response, and recovery management operations. Provides commanders and response agencies the situational awareness of emergency response and recovery operations. Implements CEMP 10-2 and support agreements. Coordinates the development of IAPs and provides mission assignments through the chief of planning at the direction of the IC or EOC director. Facilitates the acquisition and delivery of essential resources, humanitarian aid, personnel and equipment to conduct EM operations through the chief of logistics to maintain continuity of mission operations and mobilization and deployment of response and recovery capabilities consistent with the installation CEMP 10-2. Coordinates requests for external specialized teams with the CAT for various missions such as space shuttle support, RTF, DOE, or events requiring the support of Hammer ACE. Monitors, tracks, and reports financial impacts, reimbursable expenditures, and claims AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 73 resulting from incidents. Provides emergency contractual support through the administration and financial section. Facilitates information flow through the ECC in all phases of response in order to alert, protect, or pre-position DRF assets for quick response. Provides notification and public information releases through ESF 15. Ensures the safety officer monitors worker, public health, and safety issues and advises the EOC director on response hazards and prevention actions regarding the safety and welfare of the installation and local community. Provides liaison with other Federal, interagency, and jurisdictional authorities; NGOs; and local industry. Provides additional management and response capabilities, including CBRN and conventional munitions response, hazard identification, downwind hazard plotting and chaplain support services. Table A3.6.  ESF 6, Mass Care, Housing & Human Services Responsibilities. Coordinates the installation response and recovery efforts to provide essential health and human services for the safety and welfare of installation personnel, and assists local community. Supports Federal, and other jurisdictional agencies to include DSCA and NGOs in efforts to address the non-medical mass care, housing, and human services needs of individuals and/or families affected by domestic incidents. Coordinates non-medical mass care services to include emergency sheltering of personnel in pre-identified shelter sites within existing structures. Coordinates emergency first aid at mass care facilities and designated sites. Collects and provides disaster welfare information regarding individuals within the affected area to immediate family members outside the affected area. Coordinates reunification of family members within the affected area. Coordinates with Federal, State, local, and tribal governmental entities and NGOs regarding bulk distribution sites for mass care, food, water, ice, and other relief items. Identifies housing impacts caused by the incident and develops an action plan to provide housing assistance. Coordinates victim recovery efforts such as counseling. Identifies support for persons with special needs. Table A3.7.  ESF 7, Resource Support Responsibilities. Provides critical operational assistance to support Federal, State, local, and tribal response agencies requiring resource support prior to, during, and/or after EM incidents to include DSCA responses. Coordinates installation support agencies’ resource contributions to support CEMP 10-2s and IAPs by identifying (1) emergency relief supplies for COOP, (2) facility space requirements to include Federally owned and leased buildings, (3) office equipment, (4) administrative supplies, and (5) expendables from Federal stores or supply centers in current Federal stocks, small business or distributors in the affected area.  Coordinates support for telecommunications, contractual, transportation, and security services and resources to include personnel to support immediate response activities of the installation. 74 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Identifies support requirements not specifically in other ESFs such as excess or surplus property available through the Defense Reutilization and Marketing System. Table A3.8.  ESF 8, Public Health and Medical Services Responsibilities. Assesses public health/medical needs (including behavioral health), public health surveillance, and medical care. Provides medical personnel, equipment and supplies to execute ESF 8 roles. Coordinates the installation response to provide health and medical assistance to ensure the safety and public health of personnel affected by the incident. Coordinates the mobilization and deployment of personnel to conduct health and medical assessments of the public health care system and facility infrastructures. Coordinates enhanced surveillance and monitoring of the health of the general population and special high-risk populations. Coordinates field studies and investigations. Monitors injury and disease patterns and potential disease outbreaks. Provides technical assistance and consultations on disease, injury prevention, and health and safety precautions. Coordinates immediate response in casualty clearing and staging operations. Coordinates medical equipment and supplies, including medical, diagnostic, and radiation-emitting devices; pharmaceuticals; and biologic products in support of immediate medical response operations. Coordinates restocking of health care facilities in the area affected by a major disaster or emergency. Coordinates with ESF 1 regarding evacuation of seriously ill or injured patients to locations where hospital care or outpatient services are available. Coordinates patient care support to victims who become seriously ill or injured regardless of location. Coordinates security measures for regulated human and veterinary drugs as well as medical devices. Monitors need for blood, blood products, and other supplies. Coordinates requests with distribution agencies. Coordinates safety and security monitoring of Federally regulated subsistence. Ensures monitoring procedures for the safety and security of food-producing animals, animal feed, and therapeutics. Maintains statutory authority for animal feed and the approval of animal drugs intended for both therapeutic and non-therapeutic use in food animals as well as companion animals. Monitors and provides technical assistance for worker health and safety measures and precautions. Coordinates behavioral health care services for substance abuse such as disaster mental health training for disaster workers. Disseminates public health and medical information to the public and the affected area through chain of command and release authority. Coordinates vector control assessments for vector-borne diseases by conducting field investigations.  This includes the collection and laboratory analysis of relevant samples. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 75 Coordinates vector control equipment, supplies, technical assistance, and consultation on protective actions regarding vector-borne diseases. Coordinates technical assistance and consultation on medical treatment. Coordinates the assessment of potable water, wastewater, solid waste disposal issues, and other environmental health issues. Coordinates collection and laboratory analysis of relevant samples. Coordinates water purification and wastewater/solid waste disposal equipment and supplies. Coordinates technical assistance and consultation on potable water and wastewater/solid waste disposal issues. Coordinates victim identification by fingerprint, forensic dental, and/or forensic pathology/anthropology methods, including processing, preparation, and disposition of remains. Conducts health risk assessment to include identification of health threats, analyzing threats, health risk communication, and recommending controls IAW AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment. Table A3.9.  ESF 9, Urban Search and Rescue Responsibilities. Urban Search and Rescue (US&R) is performed and supported by responders from the Civil Engineer, Contracting, Medical, Operations, and Force Support agencies. Rapidly deploys forces to the affected area in order to provide specialized life saving assistance by locating, extricating, and providing on site medical treatment of victims trapped in collapsed structures.  Staffing is provided primarily by FES personnel and EMS personnel who are highly trained and experienced in collapsed structure search and rescue digging and shoring techniques. Possesses specialized confined space rescue qualifications, expertise and equipment to locate and extricate entrapped victims. Provides expertise in various US&R disciplines primarily through technical specialists from the FSS. Table A3.10.  ESF 10, Oil and Hazardous Materials Response Responsibilities. Provides Federal support in response to an actual or potential discharge and/or uncontrolled release of oil or HAZMAT during major incidents.  Provides appropriate response and recovery actions to prepare for, prevent, minimize, or mitigate a threat to public health, welfare, or the environment caused by actual or potential oil and HAZMAT incidents. Coordinates provisions of installation CEMP 10-2s and IAPs to support the overall management of HAZMAT response activities to ensure actions are taken to mitigate, clean up, and dispose of oil and HAZMAT and minimize the impact of incidents. Coordinates response to assess the situation, including the nature, amount, and locations of actual or potential releases of oil and HAZMAT. Coordinates the determination of HAZMAT exposure pathways to humans and the environment; probable direction and time of travel of the materials; potential impact on human health, welfare, safety, and the environment; types, availability, and location of response resources, technical support, decontamination and cleanup services; and 76 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 priorities for protecting human health and welfare and the environment through appropriate prevention and/or response actions. Coordinates with other preparedness agencies and the private sector to maximize use of available regional assets and identify resources required from outside the region.  The Federal government also may respond to oil and HAZMAT incidents using mechanisms of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan. Table A3.11.  ESF 11, Agriculture and Natural Resources Responsibilities. Coordinates primary functions essential to safety and security of agricultural and natural resource protection. Coordinates nutritional assistance and food nutritional services to determine nutritional needs, obtain appropriate food supplies, and coordinate delivery of supplies with ESF 1. Coordinates animal and plant disease/pest response to an outbreak of highly contagious or economically devastating animal/zoonotic diseases such as an outbreak of a highly infective exotic plant disease or an economically devastating plant pest infestation. Coordinates with ESF 8 and ensures animal/veterinary/wildlife issues in EM operations are supported. Coordinates primary actions to ensure the safety and security of the commercial food supply, including food safety inspection and verification of products in distribution and retail sites (i.e. commissary, import facilities) at ports of entry, laboratory analysis of food samples, control of products suspected to be adulterated, plant closures, food-borne disease surveillance, and field investigations. Coordinates primary functions essential to protect natural and cultural resources, historic properties, and historic resources.  This includes appropriate response actions to conserve, rehabilitate, recover and restore resources. Table A3.12.  ESF 12, Energy Responsibilities. Collects, evaluates, and shares information on energy system damage and estimations on the impact of energy system outages within affected installations. Estimates the impact of energy system outages within affected areas.  The term energy includes producing, refining, transporting, generating, transmitting, conserving, building, distributing, and maintaining energy systems and system components.  Provides information concerning the energy restoration process such as projected schedules, percent of completion of restoration, geographic information on the restoration, and other information as appropriate.  Addresses significant disruptions in energy supplies for any reason, whether caused by physical disruption of energy transmission and distribution systems, unexpected failure of such systems, or unusual economic or international political events. Table A3.13.  ESF 13, Public Safety and Security Responsibilities. Coordinates response to incidents and provides public safety and security capabilities and resources to support a full range of incident management activities associated with major accidents and natural disasters.  This includes non-investigative/non-criminal law enforcement functions (refer to AFOSI/SF Investigative Matrix, AFI 71-101 Volume 1, Criminal Investigations), crowd control, a child identification system for shelter AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 77 operations, public safety activities for evacuation of personnel within the affected area, security capabilities to safeguard critical assets and operations, and the securing of incident areas to prevent looters, bystanders, and non-response and recovery personnel from entering impacted areas.  Requirements include force and critical infrastructure protection, security planning, technical assistance, technology support, and public safety in both pre-incident and post-incident situations. Coordinates public safety and security when State and local government resources are overwhelmed or inadequate during pre-incident or post-incident situations. Table A3.14.  ESF 14, Long-Term Community Recovery and Mitigation Responsibilities. Coordinates response of installation forces, local jurisdictions, and NGOs.  ESF 14 will most likely be activated for large-scale or catastrophic incidents that require Federal assistance to address significant long-term impacts in the affected area (e.g. impacts on housing, businesses and employment, community infrastructure, and social services.) Assesses social and economic consequences in the affected area and advises the EOC and IC on the long-term recovery implications of response activities. Coordinates the transition from response to recovery in field operations. Identifies appropriate Federal programs and agencies to support implementation of long-term community recovery plans. Ensures coordination of and identifies gaps in resource availability. Ensures procedures and program/contact information is up to date for the purpose of discussing lessons learned and exploring ways to leverage available resources. Table A3.15.  ESF 15, External Affairs Responsibilities. Provides accurate, coordinated, and timely information to affected audiences, including governments, media, the private sector, and the local populace, during major accident and natural disaster responses.  ESF 15 is organized into the following functional components: Public Affairs, Community Relations, Congressional Affairs, International Affairs, State and Local Coordination, and Tribal Affairs.  The primary functions of each of these areas are described in Chapters 1-4 of the NRF. Collects information on the incident, disseminates information through all available media and installation outlets, monitors news releases for accuracy, and handles special projects such as news conferences, press releases, and tours of the affected area. Provides support and advice to the CAT and EOC regarding management of information requests. Coordinates basic services such as communications supplies to assist local news media in information dissemination.  78 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Attachment 4 COMMAND AND CONTROL ELEMENTS FOR INCIDENT MANAGEMENT Figure A4.1.  Command and Control Elements for Incident Management.  AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 79 Figure A4.2.  EOC Information Flow Note: IC communicates directly with the EOC Director.  ESFs will communicate directly with UCCs that are functionally aligned with their ESF responsibilities.  However, the Office of Primary Responsibility and Offices of Collateral Responsibility for each ESF as identified in AFI 10-2501 may be required to communicate with UCCs that are not functionally aligned.  ESF 5 will communicate with the incident command post.   80 AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 Attachment 5 INCIDENT TYPES A5.1.  Incident Types.  Are used by the civilian authorities to categorize the incident.  Incidents are categorized by five types based on complexity.  Type 5 incidents are the least complex and Type 1 the most complex.  Incident Types are determined based on the number of resources and number of incident operational periods needed to handle the incident.  Many factors determine the  complexity  of  an  incident,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  area  involved,  threat  to  life  and property, political sensitivity, organizational complexity, jurisdictional boundaries, values at risk, weather,  strategy  and  tactics,  and  agency  policy.    Personnel  who  work  with  civilian  agencies such as  Fire  and Emergency Services, Emergency  Management, Command Post,  and Medical should be familiar with these incident types so when the local community asks for assistance and they are dealing with a Type 3, 2 or 1 incident then there is an understanding of the complexity of the incident and possible resources that will be required. A5.2.  Table  A5.  1.,  shows  that  incidents  may  be  typed  to  make  decisions  about  resource requirements.    AFIMS  incident  types  mirror  Incident  Command  System  (ICS)  incident  types based on five levels of complexity. Table A5.1.  Incident Types. Incident Type Type 5   Type 4   Description  The incident can be handled with one or two single resources with  Command/General Staff positions (other than the IC are not up to six personnel. activated.  No written Incident Action Plan (IAP) is required.  The incident is contained within the first operational period and often within an hour to a few hours after resources arrive on scene.  Examples include a vehicle fire, an injured person, a vehicle accident, or a police traffic stop.  Command staff and general staff functions are activated only if  Several resources are required to mitigate the incident; a Task Force needed. or Strike Team. control phase.  The incident is usually limited to one operational period in the  The agency administrator may have briefings and will ensure the complexity analysis and delegation of authority is updated.  No written IAP is required, but a documented operational briefing will be completed for all incoming resources.  Agency administrator role includes operational plans including objectives and priorities.  Examples include a vehicle accident with injuries, building fire, hostage or domestic violence incident, or small fuel spill. AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 81 Type 3   Type 2  Type 1    When capabilities exceed initial attack, the appropriate ICS positions should be added to match the complexity of the incident.  Some or all of the Command and General Staff positions may be activated as well as Division/Group Supervisor and/or Unit Leader level positions.  A Type 3 Incident Management Team or incident command organization manages initial action incidents with a significant number of resources, manages an extended attack incident until control is achieved, or manages an expanding incident until transition to a Type 1 or 2 team.  The incident may extend into multiple operational periods.  A written IAP may be required for each operational period.  Examples include a HAZMAT incident, aircraft crash, hostage situation with several hostages, tornado, or flood.  This type of incident extends beyond the capabilities of local control and is expected to go into multiple operational periods.  A Type 2 incident may require the response of resources out of area, including regional and/or national resources, to manage effectively the operations, command, and general staffing.  Most or all of the Command and General Staff positions are filled.  A written IAP is required for each operational period.  Many of the functional units are needed and staffed.  Operations personnel normally do not exceed 200 per operational period, and total incident personnel do not exceed 500 (guidelines only).  The agency administrator is responsible for the incident complexity analysis, agency administrator briefings, and the written delegation of authority.  Examples are aircraft crash off base, terrorist incident, large wildland fire, CAT 1-3 hurricane or extensive flooding on and off base. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. This type of incident is the most complex, requiring national resources to safely and effectively manage and operate. All Command and General Staff positions are activated. Operations personnel often exceed 500 per operational period, and total personnel will usually exceed 1,000. Branches need to be established. The agency administrator will have briefings and will ensure that the complexity analysis and delegation of authority are updated. Use of resource advisors at the incident base is recommended. There is a high impact on the local jurisdiction, requiring additional staff for office administrative and support functions. 82  AFMAN10-2502  25 SEPTEMBER 2009 8. Examples are nuclear weapons incident, terrorism incident like 9/11 or Hurricane Katrina. 