Administrative Changes to AFMAN 33-402, Service Development and Delivery Process (SDDP)  OPR:  Has changed from SAF/A6CB to SAF/MGB References to “SAF CIO A6” are hereby changed to “SAF/MG”.  9 May 2016 References to hyper link “https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/default.aspx” are now https://cs.eis.af.mil/sites/10100/SDDP/default.aspx.  9 May 2016 Submit all Field User questions and inquiries for SDDP to the following link: https://cs1.eis.af.mil/sites/AFExec_UST/SiteAssets/Field%20User.aspx.  9 May 2016 Para 1.6.8.4. and Figure 2.7 referencing hyperlink https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/COI/default.aspx is now https://cs.eis.af.mil/sites/10100/COI/default.aspx .  9 May 2016  Para 1.6.8.4 reference to usaf.pentagon.saf-us-m.mbx.af-coi-coord-panel@mail.mil will now be usaf.pentagon.saf-mg.mbx.mgb-cmo-secretariat@mail.mil.  9 May 2016 SDDP Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) can be found utilizing the following link:  https://cs1.eis.af.mil/sites/AFEXEC_UST/SitePages/Home.aspx.  9 May 2016 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MANUAL 33-402 25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Incorporating Change 1, 16 October 2014 Communications and Information   SERVICE DEVELOPMENT AND DELIVERY PROCESS (SDDP) COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   SAF/A6CB   Certified by: SAF/CIO A6S (Brig Gen Sarah E. Zabel) Pages: 71   This  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  provides  guidance  for  the  definition,  design,  acquisition, implementation  and  delivery  of  Business  Mission  Area  (BMA)  capabilities  using  the  Service Development  and  Delivery  Process  (SDDP).  The  SDDP  is  end  user-centric  to  better  align  the assistance  required  by  an  end  user  to  address  a  process-based  problem  across  a  holistic  set  of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy  (DOTMLPF-P)  solutions.  The  SDDP  details  the  processes  and  procedures  by  which Information  Technology  (IT)  capabilities  supporting  Air  Force  (AF)  processes  are  identified, defined,  developed  and  delivered  in  a  way  that  ensures  IT  capabilities  are  necessary,  and maximize the potential for successful implementation of IT investments. The SDDP is applicable to large and small scale problems and can be used to implement IT capabilities of  all sizes and types.  This  Manual  implements  AF  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  33-4,  Information  Technology Governance,  and  AF  Instruction  (AFI)  33-401,  Enterprise  Architecture,  by  providing  guidance for  developing  and  implementing  DOTMLPF-P  requirements,  including  IT  capabilities.  It applies  to  all  military  and  civilian  AF  personnel,  members  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air National  Guard,  and  other  individuals  or  organizations  as  required  by  binding  agreement  or obligation with the Department of the Air Force.   In accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, this is a non-tiered compliance item.  It applies to Air Force enterprise level capability delivery. Waiver authority for applying this AFMAN is SAF/CIO A6.     2  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Send  all  recommendations  for  changes  or  comments  to  Air  Force  Chief  Information  Officer (SAF/CIO  A6),  1600Air  Force  Pentagon,  Washington  DC  20330-1790,  through  appropriate channels,  using  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication.  Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Disposition Schedule located Air Force Records SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  interim  changes  adds  Attachment  2  and  3  to  AFMAN  33-402  and  other  administrative changes.  A margin bar ( | ) indicates newly revised material.  Chapter 1—SERVICE DEVELOPMENT AND DELIVERY PROCESS OVERVIEW    1.1. SDDP Objectives.   ..................................................................................................  1.2. Executive Summary.   ..............................................................................................  1.3. Information about this Manual.  ..............................................................................  1.4. PPBE, JCIDS, and DAS Alignment.   .....................................................................  1.5. SDDP and Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21).   .............  1.6. SDDP Roles and Responsibilities.   .........................................................................  Chapter 2—SDDP OUTCOMES AND ACTIVITIES    2.1. SDDP Targeted Outcomes.   ....................................................................................  2.2. SDDP Activities.   ....................................................................................................  Table  2.1. SDDP Steps  ............................................................................................................  Figure  2.1. SDDP 6 Steps Official Flow Overview   .................................................................  2.3. Conditions for Executing the SDDP.   .....................................................................  2.4. Executing the SDDP.   .............................................................................................  Figure  2.2. PRM Information   ...................................................................................................  Figure  2.3. BRM Information   ..................................................................................................  Figure  2.4. DOTMLPF-P Implementation Plan   .......................................................................  Figure  2.5. Contextual Model Example.   ..................................................................................  Figure  2.6. SRM Information (Parts 1-4)   .................................................................................  Figure  2.7. DRM Information   ..................................................................................................  Figure  2.8.  M-Implementation Plan   .........................................................................................  Table  2.2. Skill sets included on Project Team   .......................................................................  4 4 4 5 6 6 7 15 15 15 16 18 18 19 22 26 28 30 35 40 42 43 AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   Attachment 2—PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT WITHIN THE SDDP   Attachment 3—PLATFORM ENVIRONMENT AND BASELINES      3  51 67 70      4  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 SERVICE DEVELOPMENT AND DELIVERY PROCESS OVERVIEW Chapter 1 1.1.  SDDP Objectives. 1.1.1.  The  primary  objective  of  the  SDDP  is  to  focus  diverse  skill  sets,  resources  and organizations  on  solving  defense  business  system  needs  without  placing  the  burden  on  the operator  to  be  skilled  in  all  the  activities  required  when  defining,  developing  and implementing solutions (e.g., architecture, system engineering, process improvement, project management, governance). This user-centric perspective focuses on explicit understanding of AF processes and organizational structures to help the user solve specific problems, and may result  in  process-derived,  IT-enabled  capabilities  that  can  be  effectively  deployed  on  AF-provisioned classified or unclassified networks. 1.1.2.  Use of the SDDP leads the end user to explore and identify the broader DOTMLPF-P solution  set,  including  materiel  solutions.  When  an  IT  capability  is  needed,  the  broader DOTMLPF-P  solution  set  informs  the  change  management  strategy  to  assure  successful implementation.  To  gain  full  support  of  the  AF,  the  end  user  obtains  sponsorship,  usually from  an  AF  Functional  organization.  Implementation  of  non-materiel  solutions  is  executed by  the  Sponsor  supporting  the  users  through  other  existing  methods,  e.g.,  organizational change  requests  and  policy  development.  Thus,  the  end  user  does  not  have  to  be  a programmatic specialist to execute the SDDP. Instead, the end user relies on the Sponsor to enlist  the  support  of  specialists  with  required  skill  sets,  to  assist  in  the  completion  of  the SDDP  and  the  delivery  of  the  process-derived  capabilities  in  accordance  with  the  business case  supporting  the  materiel  solution.  When  pursuit  of  a  materiel  solution  is  required  (as determined by the Sponsor and appropriate requirements oversight organization), the SDDP process  continues  through  a  disciplined  process  of  refining  requirements,  delivering  the materiel  solution,  integrating,  testing,  and  deploying  full  operational  capability.  The  SDDP process, in Steps 3-6, relies on the partnership between the sponsor and the project team. 1.2.  Executive Summary. 1.2.1.  The SDDP improves the definition, design,  acquisition, implementation  and delivery of  Information  Technology  (IT)  Business  Mission  Area  (BMA)  capabilities.  The  SDDP  is end  user-centric  to  better  align  the  assistance  required  by  an  end  user  to  initially  address process-based  problems.  The  SDDP  comprises  six  individual  Steps  that  can  be  scoped  to accommodate  any  size  problem  or  need.  Tasks  can  be  accomplished  in  parallel  and  scoped appropriately  to  the  complexity  and  scale  of  the  problem  to  shorten  development/delivery timelines. Each Step in  the SDDP has specific product  outcomes that serve as the basis for downstream activities in SDDP and facilitate enterprise-level analysis to  maximize reuse of existing  capabilities.  Maximizing  reuse  will  eliminate  duplicate  implementation  activities across  the  AF  and  assure  individual  user  problems  or  needs  are  not  solved  at  the  cost  of overall  enterprise  benefits.  Successful  execution  of  the  SDDP  produces  a  well-described requirement,  to  include  acquisition  and  implementation  activities  to  support  delivery  of  the capability. Success may also be demonstrated by the resolution of the user's problem without a  materiel  solution.  The  success  of  the  SDDP  in  delivering  IT  defense  business  system capability is measured against the solution of the original problem brought forth by the end user. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   5  1.2.2.  The SDDP is centered on the end user and solving the end user’s need/problem. In the SDDP, the requirements definition, architecture and design for an IT BMA capability is not outsourced to a contractor. Instead, the SDDP calls for a Sponsor to support the end user in obtaining  assistance  from  multiple  AF  enterprise  functions,  potentially  from  different organizations, to define the requirement and design for an IT BMA capability such that the actual development can be acquired through detailed, controlled contract actions. The SDDP ensures the end user and the Sponsor consider all possible DOTMLPF-P solutions to the end user’s need/problem, maximizes successful implementation of IT investments and ensures IT capabilities are not acquired unnecessarily. 1.2.3.  The end user problems, addressed by the SDDP, are driven by a need to improve the effectiveness  and  efficiency  in  the  execution  of  AF  business  processes.  These  processes include  the  BMA  processes  associated  with  logistics,  personnel,  finance,  acquisition  and other AF business operations. The SDDP is not intended for the development of specific AF resources  such  as  weapons  platforms,  IT  embedded  in  weapons  platforms  (sometimes referred to as Platform Information Technology or PIT) or physical network infrastructure. 1.2.4.  The  first  two  Steps  of  the  SDDP  focus  on  defining  the  end  user  problem  in  detail, streamlining business or mission processes, and identifying a set of potential DOTMLPF- P actions  to  address  the  need  or  problem.  The  remaining  four  Steps  focus  on  the implementation of a materiel solution in the form of IT capabilities, assessing the success of the  implementation  against  performance  measures  identified  as  part  of  the  end  user’s need/problem  statement.  It  is  conceivable  a  successful  SDDP  effort  would  terminate  after Step 2, as in the case where a Sponsor selects an identified non-materiel solution that would resolve  the  original  user  problem.  Termination  would  still  be  considered  a  success,  as  user problems may be solved with a non-materiel solution. 1.2.5.  The  SDDP  will  generate  information  that  can  be  used  to  support  existing  Joint Capabilities,  Integration  and  Development  System  (JCIDS),  Programming,  Budgeting  & Execution  (PPBE),  Defense  Acquisition  System  (DAS)    tasks/processes  without  adding duplicative work and will be combined into existing review and approval processes. 1.3.  Information about this Manual. 1.3.1.  This AF Manual documents the SDDP, providing both an overview of the SDDP and detailed descriptions of each Step, the objectives and expected outcomes for each Step, and the  products  for  each  Step.  Process  maps  for  each  Step  are  included  as  part  of  the  SDDP descriptions.  Process  maps  and  the  detailed  Steps  illustrate  functions  that  should  be performed  by  individuals  with  skill  sets  described  in  Paragraph  1.6.  For  example,  the  AF Architects  assist  the  Sponsor  to  look  into  the  various  repositories  within  which  the  AF Enterprise Architecture (AF EA) is captured to discover potentially reusable capabilities. The outputs of each Step are described in terms of the information captured as part of completing the Step. Specific formats for submitting this information will align with guidance/policy for the decision-makers/governance authorities being used (JCIDS, PPBE, DAS); Figures 2.2. – 2.8 provide basic examples for creating the products. 1.3.2.  Detailed  descriptions  of  the  products  that  form  the  primary  Enterprise  Architecture (EA)  artifacts  are  included.  The  content  for  these  artifacts,  which  include  the  Performance Reference  Model  (PRM),  the  Business  Reference  Model  (BRM),  the  Service  Reference Model (SRM) and the Data Reference Model (DRM), are depicted in separate diagrams for   6  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 each  reference  model  in  the  main  body  of  this  AFMAN.  Examples  of  these  products  are available  at  https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/default.aspx  on  the  SAF/US(M)  SDDP SharePoint site. These artifacts are not the only products generated during the SDDP. Other products include: programmatic artifacts such as work plans, schedules and review packages; technical  content  such  as  analyses,  test  reports,  evaluations  and  assessments;  and  business content such as cost estimates and business case analyses. These other products are described in Step https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/default.aspx. documentation detail of each more in the 1.3.3.  DoD-level efforts underway continue to redesign the JCIDS and IT Box requirements processes.  SAF/CIO  A6  Portfolio  Management  Division  will  monitor  these  activities  and refine the SDDP and this AFMAN as those decisions impact the SDDP and lessons learned are applied. 1.3.4.  Other  desirable  enabling  initiatives  were  identified  during  the  development  of  the SDDP  (such  as  the  definition  and  configuration  control  of  the  baselines  identified  in Attachment  3  and  the  development  of  an  EA  Environment  that  facilitates  the  architectural analysis  described  within  the  SDDP).  SAF/CIO  A6  will  continue  to  advocate  for  other enabling initiatives that will make the SDDP more efficient and effective. 1.4.  PPBE, JCIDS, and DAS Alignment. 1.4.1.  The  SDDP  will  generate  information  to  directly  support  other  processes  (e.g., acquisition,  contracting,  engineering,  governance).  PPBE,  JCIDS,  and  the  DAS  are governance  processes  that  support  decisions  related  to  requirements  validation,  funding certification  and  acquisition  oversight.  The  SDDP  will  develop  information  documentation fully compatible with the PPBE, JCIDS, and DAS governance processes. Information will be generated one time and used many times in these various processes. 1.4.2.  Documentation  generated  by  the  SDDP  has  been  mapped  against  PPBE,  JCIDS (AFROC/JROC),  DoDI  5000.02  documentation  to  ensure  SDDP  integrates  effectively  into existing processes without  adding  duplicative work. A  copy of that mapping is  available at https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/SDDP%20Library/Forms/AllItems.aspx.  The  SDDP  assures that  information  captured  aligns  to  or  exceeds  the  information  requirements  of  JCIDS  and other processes. In established PPBE, Acquisition, JCIDS guidance, since sponsor review is already  required  before  meeting  JCIDS  or  acquisition  system  authorities,  SDDP  will  align with  JCIDS    review/approval  (includes  associated  Acquisition  &  PPBE).  This  is  likely  to occur  within  all  6  steps.  See  Reference  SDDP  Acquisition  Alignment  Document  for  a mapping of SDDP to DoDI 5000.02 documents. 1.4.3.  Other  governance  bodies  (such  as  the  Investment  Review  Board  (IRB)  and  Defense Business  Council  (DBC)  for  Defense  Business  Systems  (DBS))  may  impose  specific documentation  requirements  on  projects  coming  to  them  for  review.  Information  generated by SDDP activities would be used to populate those specific documents. 1.5.  SDDP and Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21). 1.5.1.  AFSO21 is the Air Force’s dedicated effort to maximize value and minimize waste in all  of  our  AF  processes,  focusing  on  continuous  process  improvement  and  root  cause analysis,  and  leveraging  collective  experience,  expertise,  tools  and  best  practices  in identifying the best way to do work. AFSO21 is  the Air Force’s process change agent; it is AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   7  strongly encouraged that SDDP practitioners look to AFSO21 for support. However, because AFSO21  was  not  intended  to  focus  specifically  on  the  delivery  of  IT  capability,  it  is important that SDDP activities augment and reinforce AFSO21 outputs in order to assure that the  information  captured  is  detailed  enough  to  support  the  characterization  of  information exchange requirements that are a critical part of the IT capability requirement definition. 1.6.  SDDP Roles and Responsibilities. 1.6.1.  The processes outlined in  this Manual  are  described in  terms of specific activities to be conducted by personnel with specific skill sets. These are captured in the accompanying process maps in different swim lanes. This section describes, in general terms and at a high level, what those skill sets are and the roles and responsibilities of personnel providing those skill  sets.  Where  possible  and  to  aid  the  Sponsor  in  obtaining  assistance,  it  also  describes where those skill sets are currently working within the Air Force and where training on how to perform those activities might be obtained. 1.6.2.  SAF/CIO A6.  Overall responsibility for the successful deployment of IT capability is the  SAF/CIO  A6.    It  oversees  activities  within  the  BMA  through  the  SDDP.    An  SDDP activity is shared among members of the Project Team, with the Sponsor taking the principal role  to  manage  project  work  in  Steps  1,  2  and  3,  and  the  Project  Lead  taking  principal management responsibilities in Steps 4, 5 and 6. The Project Lead will often be equivalent to a  program  manager.  However,  within  the  construct  of  the  SDDP,  a  Project  Lead  could  be responsible  for  more  than  one  program.  Therefore,  we  use  the  term  Project  Lead  to distinguish this multiple responsibility from that of a single program manager. The Sponsor has  the  overarching  responsibility  to  monitor  all  SDDP  work  performed  in  support  of  the problem  statement/need  and  to  work  closely  with  the  Project  Lead  to  assure  the  capability developed and deployed satisfies the original problem statement/need. 1.6.3.  Functional/Subject  Matter  Expert  (SME).  The  SME  is  usually  the  Core  Function Lead (CFL).  It performs activities in all six Steps of the SDDP. Personnel performing these activities  understand,  at  an  operational  level,  the  stated  problem  and  the  mission  processes that  deliver  the  required  capabilities.  These  SMEs  remain  assigned  to  the  project  lead throughout  the  SDDP  process  to  ensure  that  definition,  development  and  deployment activities  are  tightly  focused  on  resolving  the  user’s  original  problem  statement.  It  is important  to  the  success  of  the  SDDP  that  SMEs  be  drawn  from  the  community  that  is currently  performing  the  subject  mission  (on  the  “front  lines”  of  the  mission)  because  the AF’s operating environments are dynamic and rapidly changing. This skill set is also referred to in this Manual as the functional/SME or the warfighter. This skill set represents the needs of the end user community. 1.6.4.  Sponsor. 1.6.4.1.  The Sponsor is usually the HAF Functional and also performs activities in all six Steps  of  the  SDDP.  The  Sponsor  is  the  principal  decision-maker  and  leads/controls  the work  performed  in  Steps  1,  2  and  3,  and  coordinates  closely  with  the  project  lead  who helps direct the work performed in Step 3 and leads/controls the work performed in Steps 4,  5  and  6  to  ensure  that  the  development  and  delivery  of  capability  satisfy  the requirement as defined in Steps 1-3. The Sponsor should have the authority to: resource the  activities  of  the  SDDP;  make  the  decisions  described  in  this  Manual;  direct  the involvement  of  SMEs;  and  provide,  direct  or  advocate  for  the  necessary  funding  to   8  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 procure any materiel solution identified as part of the DOTMLPF-P capability set. If AF Corporate Structure review is needed to support the allocation of resources, the Sponsor will  facilitate  those  reviews/approvals.  The  Sponsor  enlists  the  support  of  skill  sets  as needed  to  complete  SDDP  activities  satisfactorily  and  reviews/approves  the  major outputs of each Step. The Sponsor should be a general officer or senior executive. 1.6.5.  Enterprise Architecture (EA) Team. 1.6.5.1.  The AF EA is developed by SAF/CIO A6 and captures the structure of the AF, its missions, organizations and mission or business  processes, the relationships between components, and the principles and guidelines governing their design and evaluation over time.  The  AF  EA  includes  tracing  these  elements  of  the  Air  Force  structure  to  the technical capabilities that are or will be implemented to support each of those elements. Thus,  the  AF  EA  maintains  the  links  between  specific  AF  mission  processes  and  the specific materiel solution capabilities that support or automate those processes. The trace is  maintained  through  connection  to  the  Baselines  that  are  under  development  by  Air Force components, whose overall responsibilities for the Baselines are defined in AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support. These baselines include the Target Baseline, Implementation Baseline and Operational Baseline, which characterize the environment in which materiel solutions  are  deployed  in  support  of  mission  processes.  The  AF  EA  maintains  the traceability  from  user  need  to  mission  process  to  components  of  a  materiel  solution  to enable  the  Air  Force  to  identify  reusable  components  in  any  materiel  solution development. 1.6.5.2.  The  architects  that  make  up  the  Architecture  Team  provide  the  skills  needed  to advise and assist the functional SMEs and Sponsor to: (1) generate information and capture the output of the SDDP activities into appropriate architectural artifacts (including DoDAF if required); (2) discover architectural content from the AF EA; and (3) retrieve and aid in the analysis  of  architectural  artifacts  by  the  SDDP  team.  The  Architecture  Team  will  conduct analysis of the AF EA that will include but not be limited to the following: 1.6.5.2.1.  Identification  of  processes  that  may  be  impacted  by  re-engineering  any particular process prior to any re-engineering. 1.6.5.2.2.  Identification  of  duplicate  processes  to  prevent  redundant  process  re-engineering  and  to  reduce  the  risk  of  negatively  impacting  one  process  with  the results of re- engineering another process. 1.6.5.2.3.  Identification  of  reusable  components  of  materiel  solutions,  including reusable  services,  interfaces  and  information  assets,  to  reduce  cost  and  schedule impacts of new materiel solutions. 1.6.5.2.4.  Identification  of  reusable  EA  artifacts, vocabularies, etc. to reduce time and cost of any SDDP activity. including  process  models, 1.6.5.2.5.  Support  for the identification and satisfaction of compliance  requirements for  a  materiel  solution  by  analyzing  the  AF  EA  for  reusable  artifacts  or  identifying potential  inheritance  of  compliance  certifications  and  accreditations,  including information assurance (IA) certification, from other components within the AF EA. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   9  1.6.5.3.  Architects  can  be  found  in  many  places  within  the  AF.  The  SAF/CIO  A6  EA Division  will  validate  HAF  functional  and  MAJCOM  architects  that  support  their functional  architectures.  The Sponsor  will have  access  to or know where  to  get  support from  architects.  Alternatively,  a  Sponsor  could  choose  to  contract  for  architectural support  for  a  specific  SDDP  project.  The  Architecture  Team  could  comprise  individual architects from across HAF offices or MAJCOMs. This would be particularly desirable, if the subject problem touched multiple functional or command communities. It would be useful  if  the  Architecture  Team  included  SMEs  familiar  with  specific  topics,  such  as Cybersecurity or compliance. 1.6.5.4.  Architects should be conversant with Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA), the Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Enterprise  Architectures  (Warfighting,  Business, Intelligence  and  Infrastructure,  as  appropriate  to  their  problem  space)  and  AF  EA. Architects  should  have  experience  in  capturing  SDDP-like  content  into  architectural artifacts.  Training  for  architects  is  available  both  commercially  and  through  Defense Acquisition University (DAU) and AF Institute of Technology (AFIT). 1.6.6.  Process  Team. The Process  Team  performs  a fairly specific activity in  facilitating a group of Functional/SMEs to understand, explain and capture their mission processes and to identify areas where processes could be improved, and to capture information needs of those processes.  The  tools  and  techniques  of  the  AFSO21  methodology  are  particularly  useful  in conducting process re-engineering and improvement. Training in AFSO21 methodologies is available through MAJCOM and Wing AFSO21 offices or from SAF/US(M)S. 1.6.7.  System Engineering/Design Team. 1.6.7.1.  The  System  Engineering/Design  team  is  responsible  for  generating  the  Step  3 architectural  artifacts  that  describe  the  requirements  of  the  materiel  solution.  From  the information  flows  and  targeted  mission  processes  captured  by  the  Process  Team  during Step  2 information  exchange requirements. These information exchange requirements form the core of the Contextual Model, which specifies the initial services to be included in the materiel solution. During Steps  4  and  5  these  architectural  artifacts  are  used  to  provide  the  familiar,  traditional system engineering artifacts to define and control the development activities. the  System  Engineering/Design team  builds the 1.6.7.2.  The  System  Engineering/Design  team  should  also  assure  that  the  identified compliance requirements are captured in the materiel solution design delivered from Step 3. For example, Cybersecurity requirements may be tailored based on the course of action (COA)  selected.    Cybersecurity  SMEs  should  advise  in  the  requirements  definition  to assure  the  appropriate  Cybersecurity  considerations  are  designed  into  the  materiel solution. 1.6.7.3.  System  Engineers  can  be  found  in  many  places  within  the  AF,  but  are predominantly  within  the  acquisition  community  since  they  can  provide  information  on the  risks,  effort  and,  ultimately,  the  cost  of  providing  a  materiel  solution.  The  Sponsor should  be  able  to  request  support  from  the  relevant  Program  Executive  Officer  (PEO). Alternatively,  a  Sponsor  could  choose  to  contract  for  system  engineering  support  for  a specific SDDP project. The System Engineering/Design Team could consist of individual engineers from across HAF offices or MAJCOMs; a particularly desired approach when the subject problem touches multiple functional or command communities.   10  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 1.6.7.4.  Training  on  system  engineering  and  design  can  be  obtained  from  a  variety  of commercial and academic organizations, or through DAU and AFIT. 1.6.8.  Communities of Interest (COI) and the COI Coordination Panel. 1.6.8.1.  AF COIs support the implementation of process-derived, IT-enabled capabilities through  the  definition  and  articulation  of  detailed  information  requirements  supporting the  information  exchanges  identified  within  the  targeted  mission  processes.  The  COIs capture  the  detailed  information  requirements  in  the  Vocabulary  Package,  a  major component  of  the  DRM  information  that  is  included  in  the  bounded  user  requirements resulting  from  Step  3  of  the  SDDP.  The  Vocabulary  Package  comprises  the  following individual  products:  1)  Identification  of  Authoritative  Data;  2)  Recommendation  of Authoritative  Data  Source;  3)  Roles  and  Permissions;  and  4)  Ontology.  These requirements are then delivered for acquisition and implementation of the IT capabilities included in the materiel solution. 1.6.8.2.  An  AF  COI  includes  Functional/SMEs  from  the  SDDP  product  and  additional stakeholders collaborating on behalf of various AF enterprise components for the purpose of exchanging information during the execution of their defined mission processes. These stakeholders have  a vested interest  in  the problem  statement/need but  may  come with  a variety of roles and responsibilities from different organizations and functional areas. 1.6.8.3.  The  COI  Coordination  Panel  provides  AF  enterprise  level  management  and oversight  for  all  AF  COI  activities.  It  operates  under  the  authority  and  direction  of  the Enterprise  Senior  Working  Group  (ESWG).  The  Panel  ensures  normalization  and harmonization  of  vocabularies  and  products  across  all  AF  COIs.  The  Panel  will  ensure maximum reuse of COI products, specifically vocabularies, to minimize duplication and conflict across COIs. 1.6.8.4.  Additional  information  regarding  AF  COIs  and  the  COI  Coordination  Panel, including  training  and  templates  to  be  used  by  AF  COIs  are  available  from  the  Panel Secretariat  at  USAF  Pentagon  SAF-US-M  Mailbox  AF  COI  Coord  Panel <mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-us-m.mbx.af-coi-coord-panel@mail.mil> at https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/COI/default.aspx. or 1.6.9.  Governance Bodies. 1.6.9.1.  Governance is a management activity to oversee a capability implementation. To avoid  conflict  of  interest,  governance  is  conducted  outside  the  Sponsor’s  authority. Governance  assures  that  the  delivered  capability  meets  Legal,  Regulatory  and  Policy (LRP)  compliance  criteria  and  makes  sense  in  terms  of  return  against  the  requested investment  (ROI).  Governance  ensures  that  the  implementation  plan  is  sufficient  to deliver  the  capability  within  the  time-to-need  specified  by  the  user.  Governance  of  an SDDP  activity  is  provided  by  the  ESWG  under  the  IT  Governance  Executive  Board (ITGEB).  The ESWG will make decisions, where appropriate, and recommendations to peer  Governance  groups,  for  the  specific  decision  or  activity  that  needs  Governance approval.  The  specific  governance  reviews  needed  to  support  SDDP  activities  are dependent on the type, size and cost of the materiel solution and therefore must be scoped in  conjunction  with  the  appropriate  Governance  team  and  captured  into  the  project Integrated Master Schedule (IMS). AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   11  1.6.9.2.  In  Step  3,  at  the  point  at  which  a  specific  COA  is  selected,  the  appropriate Governance  body  reviews  and  validates  the  requirement.  AF/A5R  chairs  the  AFROC which validates all operational AF requirements. Defense Business Systems Management Committee  has  validation  authority  for  any  Defense  Business  System  (DBS)  that  is  not part  of  weapon  system  or  directly  involved  in  the  fulfillment  of  military  or  intelligence mission.  In  addition,  requirements may need to  be validated by the DoD, depending on scope and complexity, either by the JROC or by the DBC, which has authority to certify the  expenditure  of  funds.  Note:  As  process  efficiency,  the  ESWG  also  validates compliance for DBS modernizations costing over $1M. 1.6.9.3.  Governance of acquisition activities is provided by the Acquisition Authority in accordance with AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management. The AF Service Acquisition  Executive  (SAF/AQ)  is  responsible  to  oversee  acquisition  with  ultimate responsibility  resting  with  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Acquisition,  Training  and Logistics (AT&L). The acquisition authorities may delegate this responsibility to a PEO in  accordance  with  DoDI  5000.02,  Enclosure  3,  Table  1.  The  Acquisition  Decision Authority also serves as the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA). 1.6.9.4.  The  AF  Corporate  Structure  also  provides  governance  in  terms  of  assuring programming of resources to support AF requirements. The AF Corporate Structure may review an SDDP activity’s proposed capabilities and their general cost estimates in order to ensure alignment with AF Corporate strategic objectives and make necessary resource allocation decisions to support the implementation of the IT capability. 1.6.10.  Project Lead. 1.6.10.1.  The  Project  Lead  for  an  SDDP  activity  is  selected  in  coordination  with  the appropriate  Program  Office  or  PEO  at  the  point  in  Step  1  when  a  specific  materiel solution COA is selected. Once the requirement and resources are delivered at the end of Step  3,  the  Project  Lead  assumes  primary  responsibility  of  the  project  and  maintains accountability through delivery of the capability to the user in Step 6. The Project  Lead oversees the activities of the Project Team, which may directly report or may be virtually assigned  to  support  the  SDDP  project,  and  assures  that  all  necessary  acquisition, governance,  engineering,  requirements  traceability,  contracting,  development,  platform engineering, testing, deployment and sustainment activities are captured in the Integrated Master  Schedule  (IMS).  IMS  activities  should  be  accomplished  in  parallel  and  scoped appropriate  to  the  specific  materiel  solution  to  expedite  development/delivery  of  the capability.  The  Project  Lead  is  accountable  to  the  Acquisition  Authority  for  cost, schedule, performance and material readiness of the materiel solution and to the Sponsor to assure that the capability delivered satisfies the user’s problem statement/need within the time of need. The Project Lead develops all programmatic documentation required by law, regulation or policy, scoped as appropriate to support the IT capability. 1.6.10.2.  The responsibilities of the Project  Lead assigned by the PEO will  correlate to those of a Program Manager, as defined in AFI 63-101/20-101. Depending on the scope and complexity of the requirement under development, the PEO may choose to establish a  new  program  office,  identify  an  existing  program  office  to  take  responsibility  for  the project,  or  identify  another  PEO  to  oversee  a  project  that  is  managed  by  the functional/sponsor  or  a  supporting  Field  Operating  Agency  (FOA).  It  would  be  the   12  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 responsibility  of  the  PEO  and  the  functional/sponsor  to  assure  that  the  selected  Project Lead was appropriately trained. Project management training is available from a variety of commercial and academic organizations, or through DAU. 1.6.11.  Platform Engineering Team. 1.6.11.1.  The  Platform  Engineers  support  the  platform  environment  into  which  the materiel  solution  is  intended  for  deployment.  The  appropriate  Platform  Engineers  are identified  through  coordination  with  AFSPC/A6  and  the  Infrastructure  PEO  (PEO C3I&N),  which  are  responsible  for  provisioning  the  AF  Operational  Environment  or Platform.  Platform  Engineers review the materiel  solution requirements to  assure it will deploy successfully into  the Platform.  If the Platform  Engineers determine that changes to  the  Operational  Environment  are  needed,  they  take  the  appropriate  steps  outlined  in AFPD  33-4  to  request  change  to  the  Target,  Implementation  and  Operational  Baselines which  govern  the  Platform  configuration.  The  Platform  Engineers  also  assist  with describing the technical requirement to connect to legacy systems and environments, and thus place requirements on the materiel solution. 1.6.11.2.  Training  for  Platform  Engineering  is  available  from  a  variety  of  commercial and academic organizations, or through training provided by the communications career field functional manager. 1.6.12.  Integrated Test Team. 1.6.12.1.  The  overarching  functions  of  testing  are  to  mature  system  designs,  manage risks, identify and help resolve deficiencies as early as possible, and ensure systems are operationally  mission  capable  (i.e.,  effective  and  suitable).  The  Air  Force  Test  and Evaluation  (T&E)  community  plans  for  and  conducts  integrated  testing  as  an  efficient continuum  known  as  seamless  verification  in  collaboration  with  the  requirements  and acquisition  communities.  The  Integrated  Test  Team  (ITT)  is  a  cross-functional  team  of empowered representatives from multiple disciplines and organizations and co-chaired by operational  testers and the program  manager. The  ITT is  responsible for developing the T&E  strategy  and  Test  and  Evaluation  Master  Plan  (TEMP),  assisting  the  acquisition community  with  T&E  matters,  and  guiding  the  development  of  test  plans  that  are integrated. Detailed instructions on the ITT can be found in AFI 99-103. 1.6.12.2.  Testing  occurs  within  the SDDP  throughout  the  development  and  deployment of a capability, both as limited user evaluations of the software under development and as independent tests conducted by the Test Community. During IMS development, the ITT will recommend the appropriate combination and level of testing to be accomplished for development test, government acceptance test, integration test, independent test and user acceptance test. 1.6.12.3.  The  Project  Lead  is  responsible  for  coordinating  with  the  ITT  to  assure  that appropriate testing organizations are represented on the Project Team. Testing advises in the  development  of  performance  measures  and  metrics  to  assure  metrics  are  testable, participates  in  IMS  development,  oversees  testing  activities  and  with  the  Information Technology Lifecycle Capability (ITLC)  assures that the Test Environment is requested and available to support testing activities. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   13  1.6.12.4.  Training  for  Test  personnel  is  provided  by  the  broader  Test  Community, including courses offered by DAU and AFIT. 1.6.12.5.  The  official  direction  for  testing  is  AFI  99-103,  Capabilities-Based  Test  and Evaluation.  It  describes  the  planning,  conduct,  and  reporting  of  cost  effective  T&E programs as an efficient continuum of integrated testing known as seamless verification. 1.6.13.  Information  Technology  Lifecycle  Capability  (ITLC).  The  ITLC  is  a  cross- functional  capability  that  coordinates  the  test  and  integration  efforts  for  the  lifecycle  of  the new IT capabilities. The ITLC is a set of capabilities consisting of the functions listed below. Availability  of  these  ITLC  functions  must  be  coordinated  by  the  Project  Lead  from  AF resources.  For  example,  System  Engineering  functions  may  be  available  through  the  PEO responsible for the project. Help Desk functions may be available through the AF Integrated Network Operations and Security Centers. 1.6.13.1.  System  Engineering  –  ITLC  system  engineers  will  support  architecture  and technical  analysis  in  addition  to  supporting  Certificate  of  Networthiness  activities associated with the ITLC mission. 1.6.13.2.  ITLC Environment Management – The ITLC will define, request, and establish the  CONOPS/Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA)  for  the  environment  needed  as  a  part  of the  ITLC  mission  in  addition  to  maintaining  the  configuration  of  that  environment  in accordance with the Implementation Baseline. 1.6.13.3.  Integration  Services  –  As  a  part  of  performing  Integration  Services,  the  ITLC will  support  the  Development  Team,  perform  continuous  integration,  validate  build packages, support quick look tests, and support deployment decisions. 1.6.13.4.  ITLC  Management  Services  -  The  ITLC  Management  Team  will  support  the Project  Team  to  provide  assistance  with  product  testing,  configuration  management, ITLC relevant contracting activities and other activities as requested. 1.6.13.5.  Enterprise Help Desk Services – The ITLC will update and provide training for help desk for ITLC applications and operate the tier 2 help desk which will be integrated with other enterprise help desks. 1.6.13.6.  Software Sustainment Support – The ITLC will sustain (within the boundaries of  their  organic  skill  sets)  applications  which  have  followed  the  SDDP  process  by evaluating the severity of fixes required by those ITLC applications and then proceeding to fix those ITLC applications as directed by the appropriate Sponsor/PEO. 1.6.13.7.  IT&E  Management  Services  –  The  ITLC  will  orchestrate  Integrated  Test  and Evaluation  (IT&E)  for  all  ITLC  applications  by  coordinating  the  participation  of  test organizations for all phases, and performing tests as assigned by the ITT. 1.6.14.  Contracting  Team. Contracting describes the skill  set  needed to capture a specific requirement  or  deliverable  into  a  contract  assigned  to  a  specific  vendor  for  delivery.  The authority  to  enter  into  contracts  on  behalf  of  the  Government  is  restricted  to  a  Contracting Officer  with  an  appropriate  warrant.  The  Sponsor  and  the  Project  Lead  will  identify  the appropriate  Contracting  Officer  to  support  the  Project  Team.  Training  for  Contracting Officers is provided by the contracting career field functional manager.   14  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 1.6.15.  Finance  Team.  Finance  describes  the  skill  set  needed  to  assure  that  funding  is available  to  support  the  implementation  of  a  materiel  solution.  Finance  will  assist  with characterization of the funding profile (what type of money is needed when) and will verify that the business case supporting a materiel solution is adequate to justify the expenditure of resources.    The  Finance  Team  is  not  the  approval  authority  for  funds  obligation  or expenditure. 1.6.16.  Network  Operations  Team. This skill set operates and maintains the platform and monitors the platform and applications deployed onto the platform. People who perform this task come from the organizations that provide a platform hosting environment (e.g., 24 AF or DISA).  Training  for  Network  Operations  is  provided  by  the  communications  career  field functional manager. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   15  Chapter 2 SDDP OUTCOMES AND ACTIVITIES 2.1.  SDDP  Targeted  Outcomes.  The  SDDP  is  applied  when  an  end  user  needs  support  in improving the effectiveness and efficiency of AF mission processes. The execution of the SDDP results  in  process-derived  solutions  across  the  entire  DOTMLPF-P  spectrum.  The  SDDP  is applied to mission processes that utilize resources, such as operations planning, flight scheduling or in-transit visibility, or mission processes that manage those resources, such as command and control, just-in-time inventory or cyberspace operations. The SDDP is not intended for problems arising  with  the  development  of  specific  AF  resources,  such  as  weapons  platforms  or  physical network infrastructures. 2.1.1.  Key  to  successful  SDDP  employment  is  the  early  identification  of  outcomes  that improve mission effectiveness  (e.g., help  improve the quality of the user’s performance) or efficiency  (e.g.,  enable  the  user  to  perform  more  quickly  or  accomplish  the  same performance  with  fewer  resources)  as  compared  to  the  user’s  current  level  of  performance. Improved  performance,  both  in  terms  of  effectiveness  and  efficiency,  is  captured  through high-level  performance  measures  identified  in  Step  1  and  refined  through  the  remaining Steps. If a materiel solution is necessary, these performance measures support the definition of specific performance requirements for the materiel solution developed and inform the test and evaluation of the capability delivered. 2.1.2.  The  SDDP  is  designed  to  encourage  the  decomposition  of  warfighter  needs  into discrete and manageable components, each of which have standalone value to the warfighter. This allows for more rapid delivery of high-priority warfighter capabilities. 2.1.3.  The SDDP depends on the reuse of products and information gathered from each Step for use in successive activities. Information or requirements identified in the early Steps will be reused to support oversight, compliance, test, accreditation and other activities later in the process.  Work  is  only  done  once,  and  is  done  where  it  should  be,  with  responsibilities  and accountability  remaining  within  the  government.  In  addition,  SDDP  explicitly  requires examination of existing fielded capabilities and artifacts for reuse. This reuse will allow the AF to realize savings of time and money that would otherwise have been expended to define duplicative  capabilities/artifacts,  such  as  compliance  approvals,  certification  and accreditation  (C&A)  and  training  materials  that  would  have  had  to  be  created  for  a  new capability.  By  reusing  previously  generated  artifacts,  the  Sponsor  inherits  capability, compliance and previous approvals, enabling the Sponsor to reduce resource consumption or shorten  development  timelines.  For  example,  inheritance  includes  the  situation  in  which  an IT capability receives protection from security controls (or portions of security controls) that are developed, implemented, and assessed, authorized, and monitored  by entities other than those responsible for the system or application. 2.1.4.  The SDDP is designed for early and timely decision-making regarding the progress of the  capability  development.  These  early  and  timely  decisions  are  intended  to  ensure  that resources are not wasted in pursuing solutions that are neither feasible nor cost effective. 2.2.  SDDP Activities.   16  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 2.2.1.  The SDDP is  employed for capabilities delivered to  support mission processes.  The SDDP  commences  with  an  end  user’s  statement  of  a  problem  or  need.  This  statement  can come from a number of standard AF processes or activities, previously validated high- level requirements,  problem  statements  and  process  descriptions  derived  from  AFSO21  8-  Step analyses  (which  will  be  the  starting  point  for  capturing  the  additional  information  flows within the process descriptions necessary to complete SDDP-derived IT requirements). These processes  may  be  trigger  events  that  generate  a  need  to  do  more  detailed  requirements analysis  and  implementation  using  SDDP.  By  clearly  defining  requirements,  decomposing capabilities  into  smaller,  modular  components,  and  reusing  capability  whenever  possible, SDDP supports the rapid delivery of urgent requirements. 2.2.2.  The  end  user  aligns  with  a  sponsoring  organization  that  provides  access  to  a  wide range  of  AF  corporate  skill  sets  and  support  organizations  that  will  assist  in  defining  and implementing a solution  that will meet  the end user’s needs or problems. The Sponsor will guide  the  activity  through  the  AF  Corporate  Structure  and  appropriate  Governance authorities  to  acquire  the  certifications,  approvals  and  resource  allocation  needed  to implement  successfully  the  solution  derived  during  execution  of  the  SDDP.  If  a  materiel solution  is  required  and  funded,  the  Sponsor  delivers  the  requirement  to  the  acquisition community, which takes primary responsibility to deliver a solution  in  partnership with  the Sponsor. 2.2.3.  The six SDDP Steps are described in Table 2.1: Table 2.1.  SDDP Steps Step Outcomes Step 1 – Identify DOTMLPF-P Capability Requirements Clear, concise statement of the user’s needs and/or problems Delineation of a proposed set of capabilities that will solve the user’s problem or meet the user’s needs Documentation of relevant LRP requirements indicate  whether Generation  of  a  set  of  performance  measures  that will the  capabilities,  once implemented,  actually  solve  the  user’s  problem  or meet the user’s needs Re-engineered AF processes to improve effectiveness and efficiency Definition of the DOTMLPF-P executable actions and the implementation plan  Sponsor approval to pursue the investigation of the materiel solution, if needed Step 2 – Identify Mission Processes to Deliver DOTMLPF-P Capabilities AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   17  Step 3 – Define Materiel Solution and Implementation Plan Materiel Development Decision by Acquisition Authority Sponsor approval of the bounded user requirement, which includes definition of the materiel solution, information and data sources, and implementation plan Recommended implementation methods, e.g., web services code, systems and Commercial-Off-the- Shelf (COTS)/Government-Off-the- Shelf (GOTS) Optimizes reuse Approval by the AF Corporate Structure to fund and execute the implementation of the materiel solution Step 4 – Plan and Implement Materiel Solution IMS developed by Project Team from diverse organizations with a wide range of skill sets Delivered components of the materiel solution, accepted by the government Step 5 – Integration, Test and Application Lifecycle Management Validated solution that has been shown through test to satisfy the requirement and conform to security and configuration standards Step 6 – Deploy and Operate Materiel Solution and Measure the Success of the Capability Delivery Definition of how the Platform is to be prepared to accept and manage the lifecycle of the deployed code End user capability delivered/fielded in the Operational Environment and demonstrated to be successful  Sustainment and, when appropriate, retirement of the materiel solution 2.2.4.  The  Steps  of  the  SDDP  generate  products  that  are  used  in  subsequent  Steps.  The products are continuously refined and detailed throughout the SDDP, as each activity builds upon the previous activities. Each of these Steps is decomposed into individual activities that will  be  completed  by  multiple  supporting  organizations  and  processes.  Although  the activities  are  depicted  sequentially  in  the  diagrams  found  in  the  appendices,  they  are executable  in  parallel.  As  a  result,  the  SDDP  is  scoped  to  problems  of  different  scope  and complexity.  For  smaller  problems  or  implementation  of  discrete  components  of  a  larger solution, the SDDP activities can be executed in parallel quickly; in some cases, the activities can be completed in very short spans of time. For example, in situations where the materiel solution addresses a need that is mission critical, the SDDP can be scoped as appropriate for the  size  and  scale  of  the  materiel  solution,  and  tasks  may  be  able  to  be  accomplished  in parallel  to  accelerate  the activities in  Step 3 to  get  to  implementation  more rapidly through parallel execution. If the mission need is so critical that there is no question that the materiel solution  will  be  funded,  the  Information  Analysis  activities  can  be  moved  forward  and executed in parallel with the Contextual Model and COA Development. In this situation, the SDDP  can  be  scoped  to  generate  the  SRM  and  DRM  information  simultaneously.  The   18  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 parallel  activity  can  actually  help  inform  the  COA  development  and  analysis  for  materiel solutions of smaller scope. The SDDP 6 Steps are depicted in  Figure 2.1. Detailed versions of  the  process  maps  for  all  six  SDDP  steps  are  available  at  the  SDDP  SharePoint  site  at https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/default.aspx. Figure 2.1.  SDDP 6 Steps Official Flow Overview 2.3.  Conditions for Executing the SDDP.  The following conditions must be met to execute the SDDP:  2.3.1.  The  end  users  must  obtain  commitment  from  a  Sponsor  to  manage  the  execution  of the  SDDP.  If  the  end  users  are  uncertain  how  to  obtain  a  Sponsor’s  commitment,  the  end users should consult with their Functional organization at Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM Leadership, or the AF Corporate Structure to obtain a Sponsor’s commitment. 2.3.2.  The  end  users’  organization  must  commit  SMEs  to  support  the  Sponsor  in  the execution of the SDDP. 2.3.3.  The  Sponsor  must  commit  the  resources  necessary  to  assist  the  end  users  with completion of Steps 1 and 2 of the SDDP. These resources must provide the special skill sets required by Steps 1 and 2. The Sponsor may draw all resources from internal organizations, or may request assistance from other AF organizations to complete Steps 1 and 2. 2.3.4.  If  the  decision  is  made  to  pursue  a  materiel  solution,  the  Sponsor  and  Acquisition partners commit resources to continue the process in Steps 3 through 6. These resources must provide  the  special  skill  sets  required  by  Steps  3  through  6.  The  Sponsor  may  draw  all resources from internal organizations or may request assistance from other AF organizations. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   19  2.4.  Executing  the  SDDP.  To  initiate  the  SDDP,  end  users  and  Sponsors  should  refer  to  the detailed SDDP flow charts and the accompanying textual descriptions of each individual Step in the  SDDP  at  https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/default.aspx.  The  product  templates  and examples will assist in explaining the work that needs to be completed in executing each Step in the  SDDP.  If  either  the  end  user’s  organization  or  the  Sponsor  is  not  completely  confident  in their  ability  to  execute  the  SDDP  without  assistance,  they  can  request  support  from  the  AF Deputy  Chief  Management  Officer  (DCMO).  The  AF  DCMO’s  office  can  provide  additional training and mentoring support to guide the end users and their Sponsor through the Steps of the SDDP. 2.4.1.  Step 1 – Identify DOTMLPF-P Capability Requirements 2.4.1.1.  Purpose of the Step. The purpose of Step 1 is to define the user’s need/problem in  sufficient  detail  such  that  a  plan  for  implementing  capabilities  to  solve  the  user’s need/problem can be developed and implemented. 2.4.1.2.  Outcomes of the Step. The expected outcomes of Step 1 are: 2.4.1.2.1.  Clear, concise statement of the user’s need/problem. 2.4.1.2.2.  Delineation  of  a  proposed  set  of  capabilities  that  will  solve  the  user’s problem or meet the user’s needs. 2.4.1.2.3.  Generation of a set of performance measures that will indicate whether the capabilities, once implemented, actually solve the user’s problem  or meet  the user’s needs. 2.4.1.2.4.  Documentation of relevant LRP requirements and constraints. 2.4.1.3.  Description  of  the  Step.    The  end  user’s  organization  works  directly  with  the Sponsor  to  define  the  problem  according  to  AF  EA  standards.  The  end  users  are represented  by  a  set  of  SMEs  who  work  with  the  Sponsor  to  define  the  problem.  The Sponsor  recruits  assistance  from  the  Architecture  Team,  with  the  Architecture  Team either  internal  to  the  Sponsor’s  organization  or  recruited  from  outside  the  Sponsor’s organization, from sources such as the AF Business Mission Area Directorate (SAF/CIO A6);.  The  Architecture  Team  works  directly  with  the  SMEs  to  elicit  the  nature  of  the problem  as  perceived  by  the  SMEs  and  to  capture  the  problem  as  part  of  the  PRM information (Figure 2.2). The Sponsor approves/disapproves the outcomes of Step 1. 2.4.1.4.  Step 1 Activities. The SMEs work with the Architecture Team and the Sponsor to  define  the  problem  by  completing  six  major  tasks  within  Step  1.  The  SMEs  and  the Sponsor  can  utilize  different  techniques  and  tools  to  execute  Step  1  of  the  SDDP. However, the tools and techniques of the AFSO21 methodology are particularly useful in Step 1 and Step 2 of the SDDP and serious consideration should be given to  the use of AFSO21 in these SDDP Steps. The activities in Step 1 are as follows: 2.4.1.4.1.  Define  Need/Problem  Statement.  The  SMEs  will  work  with  the Architecture  Team  to  state  clearly  and  succinctly  the  problems  identified  during mission  operations.  Ideally,  the  problems  should  be  stated  in  both  qualitative  and quantitative terms, providing the basis for defining performance measures that can be calculated  to  determine  whether  a  potential  solution  actually  meets  the  end  user’s needs  or  solves  the  problem.  The  SMEs  document  their  needs  in  the  PRM   20  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 information as part of the AF EA and then work with the Sponsor to develop a work plan  to  complete  Steps  1  and  2.  The  work  plan  is  based  on  the  initial  problem statement  and  will  be  updated  and  refined  as  the  problem  is  better  defined.  The Sponsor reviews the work plan with the SMEs and either agrees to proceed with the SDDP or may decide that the need/problem statement is inadequate or is low priority and so may terminate the SDDP. 2.4.1.4.2.  List Relevant LRP Requirements.  The SMEs work with the Architecture Team to identify LRP requirements that must be addressed by any potential solution and the specific content within the LRP sources that affect any potential solution. The nature  of  the  LRP  requirements  affects  the  scope  of  the  problem,  placing requirements  on  the  implementation  of  any  solution,  and  can  either  complicate  or simplify the implementation. It may be determined that LRP requirements may need to  be  changed  or  waived  in  order  to  solve  the  user’s  need/problem.  The  LRP requirements  are  documented  in  the  PRM  information.  The  Architecture  Team supports  the  SMEs  with  AF  EA  searches  to  locate  candidate  LRP  requirements  for consideration by the SMEs. 2.4.1.4.3.  Determine,  Prioritize  and  Present  DOTMLPF-P  Capabilities  to Sponsor.    The  SMEs  work  with  the  Architecture  Team  to  identify  specific DOTMLPF-P  capabilities  that  they  believe  are  needed  to  solve  the  problem,  as defined in the previous Step 1 activities. The SMEs consider the entire DOTMLPF-P spectrum in identifying the required capabilities. The capabilities are very high level statements at  this Step and will be further refined and detailed as the SMEs and the Sponsor  work  through  the  Steps  of  the  SDDP  (see  paragraph  2.4.1.5  below).  The SDDP is  designed to  encourage the decomposition  of warfighter needs into  discrete and manageable capabilities, each of which is independently implementable and has standalone  value  to  the  warfighter.  The  SMEs  prioritize  these  capabilities,  so  the Sponsor can consider resource limitations before deciding on whether to  pursue any specific capability. Again, the Sponsor reviews the prioritized capabilities and decides either to continue the SDDP or halt the project.  If the Sponsor decides to proceed, the capabilities are captured in the PRM information and linked to the user need/problem statement  to  maintain  traceability  between  the  original  user  need  and  the  capability that will satisfy that need.  2.4.1.4.4.  Identify  Performance  Measures  and  Attributes.  The  SMEs  will  work with the Architecture Team to identify performance measures and attributes that can be  measured  to  determine  the  effectiveness  of  any  potential  implementation  of  the identified  DOTMLPF-P  capabilities.  The  performance  measures  and  attributes  are captured in the PRM information as part of the AF EA and are used as a foundation to define  more  system-specific  performance  measures  and  attributes  during  Step  3. Note: The Sponsor and SMEs may wish to consult with the Test Community in the capture of performance measures to assure that they are testable as the DOTMLPF-P Capabilities are implemented. 2.4.1.4.5.  Conduct EA  Analysis.  The Architecture Team reviews the SME-defined needs/problems and capabilities to determine if some capability already exists within the  Air  Force,  other  Services,  DoD/Federal  Agencies  and  partner  nations  that  may solve the SME defined problem.  If a solution  already exists, the Sponsor will direct AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   21  the SMEs to reuse the existing solution, and the  SDDP will terminate. If there is no duplication, the Architecture Team will review the PRM information generated by the SMEs and ensure it aligns with  AF strategy, and that all relevant  LRP requirements have been identified and will be satisfied by the capabilities requested by the SMEs. 2.4.1.4.6.  Obtain Formal Review and Approval to Proceed.  The Sponsor reviews the PRM information generated by the SMEs, along with the Architecture Team’s EA review and determines whether to proceed with the SDDP. This review is primarily a resource review, looking at the cost associated with completing Step 2 of the SDDP against the benefit of the capabilities and the Sponsor’s other priorities. If necessary, the Sponsor obtains approval from the AF Corporate Structure to assure appropriate resource  allocation.  If  all  necessary  approvals  are  forthcoming,  the  Sponsor  and  the SMEs will move to Step 2 of the SDDP. 2.4.1.5.  One potential outcome of Step 1 is the decomposition of a problem that is very large and complex into discrete and modular capabilities that have standalone value to the warfighter, supported by IT capabilities developed in a way that maximizes the potential for reuse by other end users. In such cases, a single problem statement represented in the PRM information may spawn multiple SDDP Step 2s, where each Step 2 attacks a more discrete  component  of  the  problem  documented  in  the  PRM  information.  The  resulting individual SDDP projects should be closely coordinated by the Sponsor(s) to assure that the resulting final solution sets resolve the original warfighter problem. 2.4.1.6.  Given  the  results  of  several  pilot  activities  used  to  build  SDDP  concepts  and processes, the completion of Step 1 should be targeted to take no more than one month, depending on the resources available, scope and complexity of the problem that is being addressed by the SMEs. 2.4.1.7.  Products. The primary output of Step 1 is the information listed in  Figure 2.2, which is  captured in  the PRM of the AF EA. The PRM information documents the end user’s  needs  and/or  problems  in  the  AF  EA  and  provides  the  content  necessary  to complete  the  rest  of  the  SDDP  to  help  ensure  that  whatever  solutions  are  implemented through the SDDP will solve the end user’s problems and/or satisfy the end user’s needs. See Reference SDDP Acquisition Alignment Document for a mapping of SDDP to DoDI 5000.02 documents. 2.4.1.8.  Alignment with Governance Processes.  SDDP work will generate information needed  to  support  the  documentation  requirements  of  JCIDS,  DoDI  5000.02  or  other applicable  governance  processes.  For  example,  SDDP  information  captured  in  Steps  1 and  2  should  support  the  population  of  an  Initial  Capabilities  Document  (ICD)  format specified by JCIDS, an initial Problem Statement as required by DAS guidance, including Measures of Effectiveness (MOE) which validate outcomes to ensure the business need is satisfied  and  the  necessary  investment  is  justified,  or  the  development  of  an  initial CONOPS  and  architecture  products  as  required  by  DoDI  5000.02.  Some  of  this information is developed in Step 1.   22  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Figure 2.2.  PRM Information  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   23  2.4.2.  Step 2 – Identify Mission Processes to deliver DOTMLPF-P Capabilities 2.4.2.1.  Purpose of the Step.  The purpose of Step 2 is to establish a plan to implement the  capabilities  across  the  DOTMLPF-P  spectrum  that  are  necessary  to  solve  the  end user’s problems and/or satisfy the end user’s needs. 2.4.2.2.  Outcomes of the Step.  The expected outcomes of Step 2 are: 2.4.2.2.1.  Re-engineered  AF  processes  to  improve  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of those processes. 2.4.2.2.2.  Definition of the DOTMLPF-P capabilities that need to be implemented to solve the user’s problem and/or satisfy the user’s needs. 2.4.2.2.3.  Generation of a plan to implement the DOTMLPF-P capabilities as defined by the re-engineered business processes. 2.4.2.2.4.  Sponsor approval to pursue the investigation of the materiel solution. 2.4.2.3.  Description of the Step. 2.4.2.3.1.  In Step 2, the primary activity is the generation of business process models that  describe  the  mission  processes.  The  mission  process  map  will  expand  on  the DOTMLPF-P capabilities identified in Step 1. The majority of the work is facilitated and  captured  by  the  Process  Team,  a  group  of  business  process  engineers  who specialize  in  designing  and  improving  business  processes.  The  Sponsor  recruits  the Process  Team,  again  from  either  internal  resources  or  from  external  sources.  The Process Team works with the SMEs to re- engineer the mission processes and works with  the  Architecture  Team  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  duplication  of  mission processes. 2.4.2.3.2.  Step  2  must  result  in  re-engineered  business  process  models  that  support Business  Processing  Re-engineering  (BPR)  assertions,  as  required  by  the  Clinger-Cohen  Act  (CCA)  and  (in  the  case  of  DBS)  National  Defense  Authorization  Act (NDAA) 2010. Materiel solutions that will be implemented in Steps 3-6 of the SDDP are  dependent  upon  the  generation  of  the  BRM  information  used  to  assert  BPR  in Step  2.  As  with  Step  1,  the  AFSO21  tools  and  techniques  are  applicable  in  the  re-engineering  of  the  mission  processes  and  should  be  considered  seriously  by  the Sponsor  for  utilization  in  Step  2.  For  example,  value  stream  mapping  provides  a valuable  perspective  prior  to  re-engineering  the  business  processes.  AFSO21 characterized  countermeasures  should  help  to  inform  the  DOTMLPF-  P  Execution Plans that are an output of Step 2. The Sponsor approves/disapproves the outcomes of Step 2. 2.4.2.4.  Step 2 Activities. Step 2 has six major tasks: 2.4.2.4.1.  Identify  Mission  Processes.  The  SMEs  identify  those  mission  processes that must be engineered to deliver the DOTMLPF-P capabilities identified in Step 1. The mission processes could be processes that generate the DOTMLPF-P capability, or possibly could manage and control the DOTMLPF-P capability. The Architecture Team  will  look  for  potential  reuse  of  mission  processes  that  already  have  been modeled,  thereby  reducing  the  level  of  effort  required  to  complete  Step  2.  The   24  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Architecture  Team  will  also  consider  what  other  AF  mission  processes  may  be affected  by  the  mission  processes  Identified  by  the  SMEs,  and  whether  those processes will need to be included in the business process re-engineering. 2.4.2.4.2.  Update Work Plan.  Based on the number and complexity of the mission processes, the Sponsor will work with the SMEs to update the work plan from Step 1 and ensure the proper resources are available to complete Step 2 successfully.  Note: See Glossary for typical content of work plans. 2.4.2.4.3.  Conduct  Process  Re-engineering.  The  Process  Team  works  with  the SMEs to re-engineer the mission processes to meet the SME-identified needs and to deliver  the  DOTMLPF-P  capabilities in  Step  1.  AFSO21  Rapid Improvement  Events  (RIEs)  are  particularly  applicable  during  this  task  to  elicit knowledge  regarding  the  mission  processes  from  the  SMEs.  The  re-engineered mission  processes  are  documented  in  the  BRM  component  of  the  AF  EA  (Figure 2.3). The mission processes in the BRM information are traced back to the user needs and  DOTMLPF-P  capabilities  identified  in  the  PRM  information  from  Step  1,  and that traceability is maintained throughout the SDDP. identified 2.4.2.4.4.  Inform and Adjudicate Affected Processes.  The Sponsor works with the Architecture  Team  to  detail  what  effect  the  re-engineered  mission  processes  may have  on  other  mission  processes.  The  Sponsor  notifies  the  owners  of  those  other processes  and  works  with  those  organizations  to  ensure  that  those  other  mission processes  can  accommodate  the  re-engineered  mission  processes  without  undue difficulty.  The  Sponsor  may  need  to  adapt  the  re-engineered  mission  processes  in order to avoid major disruptions to other activities within the AF. 2.4.2.4.5.  Develop DOTMLPF-P Execution  Actions  and Plans. The Sponsor uses the re- engineered mission processes and the DOTMLPF-P capabilities from Step 1 to develop a plan to implement the DOTMLPF-P capabilities as a set of solutions. The plan includes the materiel solution implementation through Steps 3-6 of the SDDP, as described  in  subsequent  sections  of  this  Manual.  For  the  non-materiel/DOT-LPF-P) (Doctrine,  Organization,  Training,  Leadership  and  Education,  Personnel,  Facilities, and  Policy),  the  implementations  are  accomplished  through  other  AF  mechanisms, such  as  Organizational  Change  Requests.  The  results  of  this  task  are  described  in Task  A4.2.3.5.2  at  https://cs.eis.af.mil/afdbt/SDDP/default.aspx.   Develop DOTMLPF-P  Implementation  Plan,  which  includes  the  different  DOTMLPF-P implementation  work  plans solutions,  characterized  execution including  schedules, investment auditability, and business case analysis supporting the solutions. resource  allocations,  anticipated  ROI  and requirements, 2.4.2.4.6.  Obtain Approvals and Validate BPR Sufficiency.  The Sponsor reviews the  re-  engineered  mission  processes  in  the  BRM  information,  along  with  the DOTMLPF-P  Implementation  Plan,  and  determines  whether  to  proceed  with  the SDDP.  This  review  is  primarily  a  resource  review,  looking  at  the  costs  associated with the implementation of the DOTMLPF-P solutions, at a very high level, against the  benefit  of  the  capabilities  and  the  Sponsor’s  other  priorities.  If  necessary  to support  resource  allocation  decisions,  the  Sponsor  obtains  approval  from  the  AF Corporate Structure. If all approvals are forthcoming, the Sponsor and the SMEs will AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   25  move  to  Step  3  of  the  SDDP  for  a  materiel  solution  identified  in  the  DOTMLPF-P Implementation Plan. 2.4.2.5.  Products. The primary output of Step 2 is the information described in  Figure 2.3,  which  is  captured  in  the  BRM  of  the  AF  EA  and  Figure  2.4,  the  DOTMLPF-P Implementation Plan. The BRM information is generated throughout Step 2 and used in subsequent  SDDP Steps.  It  also  supports the  BPR assertion required  as  part of Clinger- Cohen Act compliance or, in the case of some DBS, to satisfy the BPR requirements of NDAA  2010.  See  Reference  SDDP  Acquisition  Alignment  Document  for  a  mapping  of SDDP to DoDI 5000.02 documents. 2.4.2.6.  Alignment with Governance Processes.  SDDP work will generate information needed  to  support  the  documentation  requirements  of  JCIDS,  DoDI  5000.02  or  other applicable  governance  processes.  For  example,  at  the  end  of  Step  2,  SDDP  information could  support  a  Materiel  Development  Decision  (MDD)  documented  by  Acquisition Decision Memorandum (ADM).   26  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Figure 2.3.  BRM Information  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   27     28  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Figure 2.4.  DOTMLPF-P Implementation Plan 2.4.3.  Step 3 – Define Materiel Solution and Implementation Plan  2.4.3.1.  Purpose  of  the  Step:  The  purpose  of  Step  3  is  to  define  the  materiel  solution component  of  the  DOTMLPF-P  capabilities  and  to  plan  the  materiel  solution implementation.  Step  3  builds  upon  the  products  delivered  in  the  first  two  Steps  of  the SDDP to generate the content that informs and guides the implementation of the materiel solution in the subsequent SDDP Steps. Step 3 is designed to support rapid acquisition of incremental capabilities by scoping the level of effort for each activity in SDDP Steps 3 through  6  to  adapt  to  the  size  and  scale  of  the  materiel  solution,  and  thus  supports  the mandates of NDAA 2010 Section 804. Step 3 is  user-driven under Sponsor Leadership, drawing  on  the  appropriate  skill  sets  from  other  team  members,  including  end  user  and SMEs during all the Step 3 activities. The Sponsor reviews and approves Step 3 products. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   29  These  two  attributes  of  Step  3  enable  the  AF  to  meet  the  NDAA  2010  Section  804 mandate of user involvement. 2.4.3.2.  Outcomes of the Step. The expected outcomes of Step 3 are: 2.4.3.2.1.  Sufficient definition of a materiel solution, as identified in the DOTMLPF-P  capabilities  resulting  from  Step  2,  such  that  the  user’s  problem  will  be  solved and/or the user’s needs will be satisfied upon implementation of the materiel solution. 2.4.3.2.2.  Definition  of  a  materiel  solution  that  considers  all  possible  approaches  to implementation,  including  web  services,  traditional  systems  and  COTS/GOTS software,  including  modernization  of  legacy  systems  where  appropriate  under  the business  case,  and  leverages  reusable  components  as  much  as  possible.  Reuse  of existing  solutions  reduces  implementation  cost  and  time,  simplifies  the  technical implementation  of the  programmatic implementation by identifying existing architectural artifacts that, through reuse, can be  inherited  by  subsequent  activities  in  the  SDDP.  This  inheritance  simplifies  and streamlines activities such as certification and governance, as well as the preparation of acquisition documentation to support the materiel solution. the  materiel  solution  and  simplifies 2.4.3.2.3.  Alternate COAs that incorporate multiple implementation approaches will be considered for selection as the implementation approach for the materiel solution to help achieve the mandates of NDAA 2010, Section 804, for modular, open systems as a key feature of the COAs that are proposed and evaluated. Alternate COAs should look  first  to  COTS/GOTS  reutilization,  then  to  web  services,  and  if  those  cannot satisfy the requirement, then to system implementation. 2.4.3.2.4.  Generation  of  a  plan  to  implement  the  selected  materiel  solution  that  is feasible, economical and can be executed within a schedule that will meet the user’s time frame for success. 2.4.3.2.5.  Approval  by  the  AF  Corporate  Structure  to  fund  and  execute  the implementation of the materiel solution. 2.4.3.3.  Description  of  the Step. Step 3 of the SDDP consists of the seven major tasks described below. If Steps 1 and 2 were completed through an AFSO21 activity, artifacts derived  in  that  activity,  such  as  a  future  state  map,  should  be  used  to  help  shape  the materiel solution defined in Step 3. The Sponsor delivers the outcomes of Step 3, which are  the  final  materiel  solution  requirements  and  funding,  to  the  identified  Product Lead/Project Center for implementation in Step 4.  Through Step 3, the Sponsor partners with the Project Lead and starts to build a team with the appropriate skill sets to complete Step 3 work (SMEs, Architecture Team, System Engineering, Platform Engineering, Test Community and others) to assure that the requirement developed in Step 3 is sufficient to carry forward in the execution of the subsequent SDDP Steps. 2.4.3.3.1.  Design  Contextual  Model.  The  Sponsor  initiates  Step  3  by  forming  a System  Engineering/Design  Team  to  assist  in  the  development  of  the  detailed requirements  for the  DOTMLPF-P Implementation Plan generated in Step 2. The System Engineering/Design Team may be  available  from  a  variety  of  places  (e.g.,  Sponsor  resources,  ITLC).  The  first  task for  the  System  Engineering/Design  Team  is  to  bind  the  materiel  solution  to  the the  materiel  solution, identified  within   30  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 mission processes from Step 2 that will be addressed by the materiel solution. Not all the  processes  identified  in  the  process  models,  generated  during  the  BPR  in  Step  2, will  have  some  automated  capability  to  support  the  process.  Thus,  the  first  task  of Step 3 is to identify those mission processes that will have support from the materiel solution. The processes that are selected compose the Contextual Model. The System Engineering/Design Team identifies the relevant information necessary to support the processes in the Contextual Model, how that information flows between the processes and  any  business  rules  derived  from  the  mission  processes  that  affect  that information.  The  System  Engineering/Design  Team  reviews  the  Contextual  Model with  the  SMEs  to  ensure  the  materiel  solution  is  addressing  the  most  important mission  processes,  identifying,  early  on,  any  SME  requirements  for  presenting information  to  the end user. After SME review, the Sponsor reviews the  Contextual Model  and  either  sends  the  model  back  for  rework,  or  proceeds  to  the  next  task  in Step  3.  The  Sponsor  may  wish  to  consult  with  appropriate  skill  sets,  including  the Project Lead, System Engineering and Test Community. An example of a Contextual Model is shown at Figure 2.5. Figure 2.5.  Contextual Model Example. PROCESS STEP GET PUT (INPUT) (OUTPUT) SOURCE DESTINATION Get Top Line Control Total (Air from OSC Force Top Line)  OSD A8P Develop Air Force Top Line Send Blue TOA to A8P Inform AFCS of Bill to Pay Distribute Final Bill to Pay    Control Total (Blue TOA) FMB A8P Bill to Pay (Initial Allocated Bill to Pay) A8P AF Board, AF Council Chairs Bill to Pay A8P Panels, FMBP Implementation the  plan  for  completing to  Build  Materiel  Solution 2.4.3.3.2.  Activities (M-Implementation)  Plan.  This  task  selects  an  approach  for  implementation  of  the materiel  solution  development  and  generates that implementation  successfully.  The  Sponsor’s  team  identifies  alternate  COAs  the Sponsor can take to implement the materiel solution. The COA can include different technology  solutions,  such  as  web  services,  traditional  systems  implementation, COTS/GOTS  software  or  reused  components  already  owned  by  the  AF,  other Services,  DoD  or  Federal  Agencies,  or  any  combination  of  those  technology solutions.  The  Sponsor  reviews  the  developing  M-Implementation  Plan  through  the Sponsor  Review  Package,  which  captures  the  descriptions  of  the  individual  COAs AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   31  generated in Step 3. The development, evaluation and selection of the COAs include the following tasks: 2.4.3.3.2.1.  The Sponsor works with the SMEs and the rest of the Sponsor’s team to  develop  functional  evaluation  criteria  for  the  COAs  to  ensure  that  each  COA will meet the SME requirements as defined in the Contextual Model. This retains the  emphasis  on to  better  assure  successful implementation in accordance with NDAA 2010 Section 804. the  end-user involvement 2.4.3.3.2.2.  Subsequently,  for  each  COA,  the  Sponsor  works  with  the  Project Lead  and  other  members  of  the  team  to  capture  the  cost  of  implementation, including  the  cost  of  DOT-LPF-P  change  management  needed  to  assure  success of the deployed capability, and to capture any risks associated with the COA. 2.4.3.3.2.3.  For  each  COA,  the  Sponsor  asks  the  AF  Governance  Team  to identify  the  compliance  requirements.  Compliance  levies  a  wide  range  of requirements;  including  but  not  limited  to:  CCA,  BPR,  Privacy  Impact Assessment  (PIA),  Federal  Information  Security  Management  Act  (FISMA)  and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). 2.4.3.3.2.4.  The Sponsor works with  the members of their team  to complete the description of each COA and with the team assesses each COA’s ability to meet all the requirements for the materiel solution as defined in the Contextual Model. 2.4.3.3.2.5.  The  Architecture  Team  identifies  possible  reuse  components  where existing  AF  capabilities  can  satisfy  some  of  the  requirements  in  the  Contextual Model. The reuse components are incorporated into the COAs. 2.4.3.3.2.6.  The  Architecture  Team  also  looks  for  compliance  requirements  that can be satisfied by inheriting previous certifications from other implementations, such as those provided by the platform environment or from reused components. These inherited certifications have artifacts that the Architecture Team includes in the reuse components for each COA. 2.4.3.3.2.7.  Next the Sponsor works with the members of the Sponsor’s team to identify  the  DOT-LPF-P  impacts  of  each  COA  and  with  the  Architecture  Team looking for reuse of other DOT-LPF-P implementations, the Sponsor assesses the scope,  scalability  and  degree  of  difficulty  in  implementing  the  DOT-LPF-P requirements necessary to make the materiel solution fully operational. 2.4.3.3.2.8.  The  Sponsor’s  Team  also  works  with  a  Platform  Engineering  Team to identify for each COA mission critical platform services requirements, platform compliance  requirements  such  as  standards  that  need  to  be  met,  infrastructure topological  adjustments  needed  any  new  or  additional  services  the  platform environment  may  need  to  provide,  including  taking  action  necessary  to  engage with Target, Implementation or Operational Baseline (See AFPD 33-4) to initiate necessary change requests. 2.4.3.3.2.9.  The Sponsor works with the members of their team to generate cost and risk estimates for each COA and using the evaluation criteria developed with the  SMEs,  assesses  the  COAs  and  selects  one  for  implementation.  The  Sponsor   32  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 should address high- level development, acquisition and sustainment strategies for each COA and the cost of implementing those strategies. 2.4.3.3.2.10.  The Sponsor considers the alternate COAs and selects the COA that seems best able to satisfy the initial user problem/need. The Sponsor reviews the selected  COA  with  the  AF  Corporate  Structure  to  assure  appropriate  resource allocation and alignment with AF strategic objectives and priorities, and proceeds to  the appropriate  AF  and DoD  governance bodies to  obtain approval  to  expend funds and implement the materiel solution. If the COA selected is likely to result in the acquisition of a materiel solution, the COA analysis and selection will also support an MDD and selection of the preferred alternative. 2.4.3.3.3.  Onboarding Activities.  This task ensures the materiel solution will result in an implementation that can be onboarded (deployed, operated and maintained) by the AF enterprise. The Sponsor’s team works with a Platform Engineering Team that consists  of  specialists  from  different  organizations  involved  in  the  implementation, operation  and  sustainment  of the  AF  platform  environment.  The  platform environment  consists  of  the  physical  infrastructure,  middleware  and  enterprise services  such  as  security  and  monitoring,  and  support  functions  such  as  Help  Desk and  configuration  management,  that  are  consistent  across  the  AF  enterprise.    For more  information  on  Platform  Environments,  see  Attachment  3.    The  Platform Engineering Team supports the Sponsor’s team during the COA development. 2.4.3.3.3.1.  After the COA is selected by the Sponsor, the Platform Engineering Team  identifies  the  technical  requirements  for  connecting  to  the  legacy  systems and  environments  which,  by  their  need  to  interface  with  the  materiel  solution, place  requirements  on  the  materiel  solution  implementation.  The  Platform Engineering Team identifies monitoring requirements for each of the components within  the  materiel  solution  as  well  as  the  Service  Level  Agreements  (SLA)  for the capabilities delivered by the materiel solution. 2.4.3.3.3.2.  Finally, the Platform Engineering Team works with the Project Lead to  develop  an  initial  test  strategy  for  the  materiel  solution,  to  test  user  interface, data exchange, and performance requirements—which include but are not limited to  response  time,  availability  (uptime)—as  well  as  the  accuracy  of  the  business rules. 2.4.3.3.4.  Obtain  Appropriate  Governance  Approvals.  SDDP generates information  that  is  useful  to  support  governance  oversight  in  a  consistent  and coherent  message.  At  appropriate  points  in  the  SDDP,  the  Sponsor  will  need  to assure: 2.4.3.3.4.1.  Requirements  Validation.  This  task  ensures  that  the  identified requirements  are  validated  by  the  appropriate  approval  authority.  The  Sponsor should  consult  with  AF/A5R  to  assure  appropriate  requirements  validation  is accomplished. 2.4.3.3.4.2.  Compliance  Governance.    This  task  ensures  that  the  materiel solution development complies with all Federal, DoD and AF LRP requirements. The  Sponsor  prepares  a  Governance  Package  that  addresses  all  the  compliance AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   33  requirements for the COA selected for implementation and assesses the financial cost of compliance as part of the requirements definition. Note: Example content of a governance package for a DBS is  captured in Figure 2.8 M-Implementation Plan (packages for other governance bodies may be different). The Sponsor takes the  Governance  Package  through  the  appropriate  governance  reviews  to  obtain approval  to  proceed  with  the  implementation  of  the  materiel  solution.  For business systems, the package would be reviewed by the ESWG, the AF DCMO, the  IRB  and  the  DBC.  For  all  IT  capabilities,  the  Acquisition  Authority  and Platform provider will review the package. 2.4.3.3.4.3.  Acquisition  Governance.  This  task  ensures  that  the  appropriate acquisition  oversight  is  maintained  over  the  materiel  solution  development  and delivery.  The  Sponsor  should  consult  with  the  Acquisition  community  to  assure the  appropriate  acquisition  approvals  are  accomplished.  Note:  If  the  COA selected  is  likely  to  result  in  the  acquisition  of  a  materiel  solution,  the  COA analysis  and  selection  will  also  support  an  MDD  and  selection  of  the  preferred alternative. 2.4.3.3.5.  Identify  Project  Lead.  At  this  point  in  Step  3,  the  leader/follower partnership  between  the  Sponsor  and  Acquisition-selected  Project  Lead  begins  to shift, as work is increasingly performed by the acquisition partners. For the remainder of Step 3, more specific requirements related to the COA selected are derived. requirements that  drive the  materiel 2.4.3.3.6.  Information  Analysis  Activities.  This  task  completes  the  detailed information solution.  The  System Engineering/Design Team works from the Contextual Model and the selected COA to identify  the  initial  requirements  for  the  functions  and/or  services  of  the  materiel solution,  coupled  with  the  information  exchanges  (flows  of  information  between components of the materiel solution  or other AF capabilities) that must occur in  the materiel  solution.  The  Architecture  Team  supports  the  documentation  of  the information  requirements  in  the  SRM  information  (Figure  2.6)  and  the  DRM information  (Figure  2.7).  The  Architecture  Team  identifies  reusable  information exchanges that may already be implemented. Each information exchange can consist of multiple information assets, which are discrete information products that are useful individually  or  collected  into  information  exchanges.  An  information  asset  may support  multiple  information  exchanges.  The  Sponsor  charters  a  COI  or  uses  an existing  COI  to  define  the  information  assets  that  are  included  in  the  materiel solution.  The  Architecture  Team  looks  for  reusable  COI  artifacts  and  provides  that content  to  the  COI  to  complete  the  information  requirements.  The  COI  defines  the following information requirements: 2.4.3.3.6.1.  The  authoritative  data  that  compose  each  information  asset  in  each Information Exchange. 2.4.3.3.6.2.  The authoritative data sources. 2.4.3.3.6.3.  The  roles  and  permissions  associated  with  the  information  assets (derived from applicable enterprise architecture information) that enable users to access and manipulate the data within the defined processes (subject to approval of  the  appropriate  functional  leadership,  and  in  consultation  with  the  original   34  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 classification authority). 2.4.3.3.6.4.  A vocabulary (based on the COI’s ontology, semantic and structural metadata) that defines the assets, their authoritative and source data, and the roles and permissions in a machine-readable form. 2.4.3.3.7.  Prepare  Bounded  User  Requirements  for  Implementation.  This  task packages  up  the  requirements  for  the  materiel  solution  development  and  delivers them to the Program Office or appropriate PEO for full-scale implementation of the materiel  solution  development.  The  Sponsor  works  with  the  members  of  the Sponsor’s  team  to  develop  a  complete  implementation  plan,  called  the  M-Implementation  Plan  that  lays  out  the  tasks,  timelines  and  resource  requirements  to implement the materiel solution fully as defined by the selected COA and the detailed information and onboarding requirements generated in Step 3. The M-Implementation Plan is shown in Figure 2.8. All these requirements are packaged up into the bounded user  requirements  by  the  Sponsor,  with  assistance  from  the  Architecture  Team,  and reviewed  by  the  SMEs  for  agreement  that  this  is  the  set  of  requirements  that  will deliver the materiel solution that solves the end user problems or satisfies the end user needs.  After  final  review  and  approval  of  the  bounded  user  requirement  by  the Sponsor  and  the  SMEs,  the  Sponsor  takes  the  bounded  user  requirement  to  the appropriate  governance  authority  for  review  and  approval.  If  needed  to  support resource  allocation,  the  Sponsor  takes  the  bounded  user  requirement  to  the  AF Corporate  Structure  to  ensure  alignment  with  AF  strategic  objectives.  Once  the reviews are completed and approvals are forthcoming, the Sponsor moves to Step 4. 2.4.3.4.  Products:  The  primary  product  of  Step  3  is  a  bounded  user  requirement.  The bounded  user  requirement  consists  of  the  SRM  information,  DRM  information  and  the M-  Implementation  Plan.  Each  of  these  products  is  described  below  and  depicted  in  an accompanying  figure  that  contains  the  detailed  content  of  each  product.  See  Reference SDDP  Acquisition  Alignment  Document  for  a  mapping  of  SDDP  to  DoDI  5000.02 documents. 2.4.3.4.1.  SRM  Information.  The  SRM  information  described  in  Figure  2.6  is captured in Step 3 and contains the detailed requirements for the specific functions or services  that  the  materiel  solution  must  provide.  The  IT  capability  could  consist  of web  services  code,  COTS/GOTS,  traditional  system  implementation  or  any combination of these three, leveraging reusable components as much as feasible. The information  should  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  relevant  compliance  requirements  as  part of  downstream  governance  activities.    Note:  The  Sponsor  and  SME  may  wish  to consult  with  IA  SMEs  during  this  Step  to  assure  that  IA  requirements  are  designed into the materiel solution. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   35  Figure 2.6.  SRM Information (Parts 1-4)    36  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   37     38  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   39  2.4.3.4.2.  DRM  Information.  The  DRM  information  described  in  Figure  2.7  is captured in Step 3 and contains the detailed information requirements for the materiel solution.  The  detailed  information  requirements  include:  the  information  that  serves as input to the materiel solution; the information  generated by the materiel solution; the  sources  for  all  that  information  and  the  access  constraints  for  users  desiring  to utilize  the  information.  The  information  should  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  relevant compliance requirements as part of downstream governance activities.   40  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Figure 2.7.  DRM Information 2.4.3.4.3.  M-Implementation  Plan.    The  M-Implementation  Plan  lays  out  the  plan for  the  selected  COA  for  implementing  the  materiel  solution  according  to  the requirements  detailed  in  the  SRM  information  and  DRM  information.  The  COA specifies  how  the  requirements  will  be  implemented  from  a  technology  basis,  with components  of  the  materiel  solution  delivered  through  web  services,  COTS/GOTS,  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   41  traditional system implementation or any combination of those three. The scoping of the  individual  activities  in  Step  3  through  Step  6  to  the  specifics  of  the  materiel solution  is  included  in  the  M-  Implementation  Plan,  which  captures  DOT-LPF-P activity  dependencies  to  the  materiel  solution.  Specifics  of  the  materiel  solution delivery are captured in the M-Implementation Plan, which serves as the basis for the acquisition strategy and the development of the detailed IMS in Step 4. The content of the M-Implementation Plan is shown in Figure 2.8. 2.4.3.5.  Alignment with Governance Processes.  SDDP work will generate information needed  to  support  the  documentation  requirements  of  JCIDS,  DoDI  5000.02  or  other applicable governance processes. For example, at the end of Step 3, SDDP could support the  development  of  documentation  such  as  a  Service  Requirement  Document  (SRD), Information Support Plan (ISP), Analysis of Alternatives (AoA), Capability Development Document  (CDD)  or  updated  Problem  Statement,  or  reviews  such  as  the  Preliminary Design  Review  (PDR)  as  required  by  the  applicable  process  and  MDA.  Information captured at Step 3 should also support the Milestone A/B decision. It is the responsibility of  the  Project  Lead  to  assure  that  the  appropriate  documentation,  reviews  and  decision gates are included in the IMS.   42  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Figure 2.8.  M-Implementation Plan  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   43  2.4.4.  Step 4 – Plan and Implement Materiel Solution 2.4.4.1.  Purpose of the Step: The purpose of Step 4 is to implement the components of the materiel solution. 2.4.4.2.  Outcomes of the Step. The expected outcomes of Step 4 are: 2.4.4.2.1.  Formation  of  a team  from  across a  wide range of skill  sets  to support the detailed  planning  and  execution  of  the  implementation  of  the  materiel  solution components. 2.4.4.2.2.  Generation  of  a  detailed,  program-level  schedule  for  (1)  implementation, (2) assignment of responsibilities for implementation and (3) allocation of resources to implement the materiel solution successfully. 2.4.4.2.3.  Implementation of the materiel solution components. 2.4.4.2.4.  Preparation  of  materiel  solution  components  for  testing  and  certification. Note:  appropriate  tests  (functional,  integration,  security,  networthiness  and  others) should be determined by the ITT and included in the IMS. 2.4.4.3.  Description of the Step. Step 4 consists of the following four major tasks: 2.4.4.3.1.  Generate  Integrated  Master  Schedule.  In  Step  4, the  primary responsibility  shifts  from  the  Sponsor  to  the  acquisition-selected  Project  Lead,  who then works with the Sponsor to execute the M-Implementation Plan from Step 3. The Sponsor  retains  customer  oversight  of  the  materiel  solution  implementation  through the  IMS. The Project  Lead obtains Points of Contact  (POC) to  serve as members of the Project  Team  (Table  2.2) responsible for executing the M-Implementation Plan. The  Sponsor  tasks  the  Project  Lead  to  work  with  the  POCs  from  each  of  the stakeholder groups to develop a detailed IMS (team may be tasked to assure that all required  skill  sets  are  represented  on  the  Project  Team).  The  IMS  includes  the detailed tasks, timelines and resource allocations from each of the stakeholder groups that must be completed to deliver the materiel solution and should capture necessary reviews,  tests,  and  compliance  and  certification  activities.  IMS  activities  should  be scoped  as  much  as  possible  for  the  specific  materiel  solution  to  expedite development/delivery of the capability. The IMS is at a sufficient level of granularity to  enable  the  Project  Lead  to  manage  the  project  according  to  AF  program management standards and guidelines. Table 2.2.  Skill sets included on Project Team Functional/SMEs Sponsor Project Lead Architecture System Engineering/Design Acquisition Authority Platform Engineering Contracting Finance   44  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 ITLC Associated PEOs/Program Management Office (PMO) Testing Governance; for example, IA/FISMA Certification 2.4.4.3.2.  Approve  Integrated  Master  Schedule.  After  the  IMS  is  completed  and agreed upon by the members of the Project Team, the Project Lead takes the IMS to the Sponsor for review and approval. As required, the Sponsor takes the IMS to the PEO,  Acquisition  Decision  Authority,  and/or  AF  Corporate  Structure  for  further review  and  approval.  Once  approved, the Project  Lead initiates the  execution of the IMS. 2.4.4.3.3.  Execute  Integrated  Master  Schedule.  The  Project  team  executes  the IMS  to  implement  the  components  of  the  materiel  solution.  Only  the  portion  of  the IMS  relevant  to  the  actual  development  of  the  materiel  solution  components  is completed at this point in the SDDP. The portions of the IMS associated with testing, deployment and sustainment of the materiel solution are completed in Steps 5 and 6 of the SDDP, but there may be activities in Step 4 to assure that the materiel solution being developed is integratable, networthy and deployable. Each POC in the Project Team  ensures  that  their  respective  teams  complete  their  assignments  in  the  IMS  in order to deliver the components of the materiel solution on time and within budget. 2.4.4.3.4.  Deliver  Deployable  Components  of  the  Materiel  Solution.  Upon  the completion of the development portion of the IMS, the Project Lead and the Project Team  deliver  the  components  of  the  materiel  solution  to  the  ITLC  for  testing  and preparation for deployment. 2.4.4.4.  Products. The primary products of Step 4 are the developed components of the materiel  solution  that  are  ready  for  integration  and  testing.  These  will  include  the  test plans and procedures, development test and evaluation results, the DOTMLPF-P Change Management  Plan,  contractual  products  and  other  products  developed  by  the  team members in order to accomplish their IMS tasks. 2.4.4.5.  Alignment with Governance Processes.  SDDP work will generate information needed  to  support  the  documentation  requirements  of  JCIDS,  DoDI  5000.02  or  other applicable governance processes. For example, at the end of Step 4, SDDP could support the  development  of  documentation  to  support  mandatory  design  (i.e.  Critical  Design Review (CDR)) or test readiness reviews or other requirements of the applicable process and  MDA  (i.e.  Milestone  (MS)  C,  etc).  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Project  Lead  to assure that the appropriate documentation, reviews and decision gates are included in the IMS. 2.4.5.  Step 5 – Integration, Test and Application Lifecycle Management 2.4.5.1.  Purpose of the Step. The purpose of Step 5 is to prepare the components of the materiel solution for deployment into the platform environment. The Project Lead assures the Step 5 activities are completed as captured in the IMS. 2.4.5.2.  Outcomes of the Step. The expected outcomes of Step 5 are: AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   45  2.4.5.2.1.  Successfully  tested  components  of  the  materiel  solution  that  demonstrate networthiness, functionality and satisfy the performance measures from Step 1. 2.4.5.2.2.  Platform  environment  prepared  to  accept  and  manage  the  components  of the  materiel  solution  throughout  the  lifecycle  of  the  materiel  solution,  including sustainment functions such as monitoring and Help Desk support. 2.4.5.3.  Description  of  the  Step.  Step  5  integrates  the  components  of  the  materiel solution  developed  in  Step  4  with  the  platform  environment  for  full-scale  testing  and certification. Step 5 consists of seven major tasks: 2.4.5.3.1.  Develop Initial Build and Deployment Packages.  The ITLC commences Step 5 by tasking resources both within the ITLC and outside the ITLC to prepare for testing and certification. 2.4.5.3.1.1.  The  ITLC  starts  development  of  Help  Desk  documentation  for  the materiel  solution,  while  System  Engineering  generates  compliance  packages  for C&A,  instructions  for  monitoring  the  materiel  solution  and  the  required configurations of the Integration/Test Environment necessary to test the materiel solution.  System  Engineering  also  generates  the  instructions  and  procedures  for provisioning  the  security  services  of  the  platform  environment  with  the  roles, permissions  and  credentials  for  the  end  users  to  obtain  access  to  the  materiel solution. The ITT updates the test plans and procedures to support the integration of  the  materiel  solution  and  the  independent  testing  of  those  components  once integrated into the Platform  Environment. Network Operations develops  training materials for the operators in how to monitor and measure the performance of the materiel solution. the  preparation  of the  Help  Desk  by 2.4.5.3.1.2.  The  ITLC  completes collaborating  with  the  Sponsor  SMEs  for  Tier  3  support  and  with  Network Operations  for  Tier  1  support,  with  the  ITLC  providing  the  content  for  Tier  2. System Engineering conducts an engineering review of the Help Desk content to ensure  that  Tiers  1,  2  and  3  will  integrate  sufficiently  to  address  all  likely  user problems  and  issues.  In  addition,  System  Engineering  conducts  a  similar  review of  the  training  material  produced  by  Network  Operations  to  verify  the  operators are monitoring all the appropriate materiel solution components in a manner that ensure  availability  of  the  materiel  solution  to  the  end  users.  Finally,  Platform Engineering  provisions  the  integration/test  environment  to  support  testing  of  the materiel solution, functioning of the Help Desk, and operations of the monitoring functions in support of the Network Operators. 2.4.5.3.1.3.  With  the  provisioned  integration/test  environment,  the  ITLC,  in conjunction with the ITT, tests the build of the materiel solution and finalizes the Build Packages. Any errors that occur during the build of the materiel solution are then fixed through adaptation of the Build Package and documented further in the Deployment Package. The Build Package describes how to install and connect the components  of  the  materiel  solution  such  that  the  materiel  solution  will  operate correctly.  The  Build  Package  includes  source  code,  compilation  instructions, development  and  test  environment  descriptions  necessary  to  support  the  build, integration/test  environment  characteristics  required  to  complete  the  build,  test   46  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 data, as well as reference documentation for testing, deficiencies and prioritization of deficiency reports. The Deployment Package  describes how,  where and when to  deploy  the  materiel  solution  across  the  platform  environment  using  the  Build Package.  The  Deployment  Package  includes  the  Platform  Service  Order, readiness,  standards,  user  evaluation,  functional  and  performance  assertion, networthiness assertion and other compliance assertions. 2.4.5.3.2.  Perform  Integration  of  Materiel  Solution:  Services,  COTS,  and Systems. The Project Lead, leveraging the ITLC skill sets, commences the integration of  the  materiel  solution  components  (Services,  COTS/GOTS  and  Systems).  As directed by the Project Lead, System Engineering performs the actual integration with support from the ITLC, connecting the components of the materiel solution with the appropriate infrastructure services within the platform environment as well as with all required external interfaces. Testing conducts a static analysis and tabletop review of the  testing  procedures,  to  ensure  that  all  components  are  installed,  integrated  and linked to monitoring and operations support capabilities. Test support personnel will participate  in  the  analysis  to  ensure  they  are  familiar  with  the  components  and  the planned test activities, and are prepared to conduct the testing. 2.4.5.3.3.  Conduct  User  Evaluation.  Once  the  materiel  solution  is  installed  and integrated, a formal limited user evaluation is conducted. This evaluation is intended to  determine  if  the  materiel  solution  meets  the  end  user  needs  prior  to  extensive expenditure  of  resources  on  testing  and  deployment  of  the  materiel  solution.  The rationale behind this testing is that the AF does not want to spend the resources to test and  deploy  a  materiel  solution  that  does  not  improve  the  mission  operations  of  the end users. The Project Lead works with the ITLC and the Sponsor to identify a set of SMEs  to  serve  as  the  end  users  for  this  testing,  with  the  ITLC  and  ITT  providing technical support as needed during the testing. Once the user testing is completed, the Sponsor  reviews  the  results  with  the  ITLC  and  the  Project  Lead  to  determine  what action  is  required.  The  Sponsor,  in  coordination  with  the  PEO,  may  choose  to  have the ITLC make simple fixes to the materiel solution. More significant fixes may need to  go  back  to  the  Development  Team.  Alternatively,  the  Sponsor  may  decide  that major  changes  require  a  return  to  earlier  Steps  in  the  SDDP.  If  the  Sponsor determines  that  the  materiel  solution  cannot  meet  its  objectives,  the  Sponsor  may decide to terminate the initiative. Once changes are implemented and the Sponsor is satisfied  with  the  results  of  the  user  testing,  the  materiel  solution  moves  to  the Independent Testing. 2.4.5.3.4.  Conduct  Independent  Testing.  In  accordance  with  current  Air  Force policy  and  guidance,  the  Project  Lead  oversees  independent  testing,  which  is  full testing of the materiel solution in the platform environment, including all operational support.  The  Lead  Developmental  Test  and  Evaluation  Organization  (LDTO)  and Participating  Test  Organization  (PTO)  conduct  the  independent  testing  and  generate test  results  for  analysis.  LDTO  is  responsible  for  distributing  test  results to  the  PM, PEO,  and  other  stakeholder  in  support  of  decisions  reviews.  System  Engineering works with  the Project  Lead to  assess the test results and determines what  action, if any, is required to fix any discrepancies in the performance of the materiel solution. Again, if the fixes are minor, the ITLC could undertake the implementation  of those AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   47  fixes  at  the  direction  of  the  Project  Lead.  If  the  fixes  are  major,  the  Project  Lead works with System Engineering to determine the impacts of implementing the fixes, with  a  particular  focus  on  the  cost  and  schedule  impacts  of  those  fixes. The  Project Lead and System Engineer then review the proposed fixes and their impacts with the Sponsor, who will decide how to proceed with the fixes. The Sponsor will determine the  point  in  the  SDDP  to  which  the  materiel  solution  must  return  in  order  to implement the fixes. In the most extreme cases, the Sponsor may decide to terminate the  initiative.  Once  the  fixes  are  implemented,  the  materiel  solution  is  retested  to verify  the  fixes  resolved  the  problems  and  the  deficiencies  can  be  closed.  Then  the materiel solution moves to the next activity. 2.4.5.3.5.  Networthiness  Review.  The  results  of  the  test  and  integration  activities are  captured  for  the  Project  Lead,  who  generates  the  compliance  and  certification packages  for  the  materiel  solution,  with  assistance  from  Platform  Engineering  to ensure the materiel  solution  complies with  the Platform  Infrastructure standards and procedures  prior  to  connection  to  a  DoD  network.  The  compliance  and  certification packages  are  then  submitted  to  the  appropriate  governance  bodies  for  review  and approval.  The  PEO,  Project  Lead,  ITLC  and  Platform  Engineering  work  with  the governance  bodies  to  modify  and  adapt  the  compliance  and  certification  packages until the governance bodies sign off the packages with their approval. 2.4.5.3.6.  Deployment Readiness.  After signoff on the compliance and certification packages,  the  Sponsor  does  a  final  readiness  check  on  the  materiel  solution  for deployment.  If  there  are  fixes  needed  to  the  Deployment  Package,  the  Project  Lead will direct  necessary changes be made to  the materiel  solution,  leveraging  the  ITLC as needed. These fixes are not changes to the materiel solution, but rather changes to the  procedures,  directions  and  possible  resource  assignments  associated  with  the deployment. The Sponsor also checks to ensure the DOT-LPF-P actions necessary to support  the  materiel  solution,  such  as  training  or  policy  updates,  have  also  been completed as appropriate. If the Sponsor chooses, the deployment may be postponed until  those  DOT-LPF-P  actions  have  been  completed.  Upon  successful  Deployment Readiness review, deployment of the materiel solution can commence. 2.4.5.3.7.  Deployment Initiation.  Deployment commences with the issuance of the Platform Service Order. System Engineering produces the Platform Service Order to give  instructions  and  directions  to  Platform  Engineering  and  Network  Operations  to deploy  the  materiel  solution.  Architecture  updates  the  architectural  artifacts  for  the materiel  solution  to  ensure  those  artifacts  accurately  reflect  the  actual,  deployed materiel solution. The Platform Service Order is then delivered for execution, and the materiel solution moves into Step 6. 2.4.5.4.  Products. The primary products of Step 5 are the integrated components of the materiel  solution,  captured  in  the  Build  Package,  and  the  Deployment  Package  that includes the instructions and material within the Platform Service Order that informs the Platform  Engineers  how  to  deploy  the  materiel  solution  and  when  specific  activities within the deployment need to be complete. 2.4.5.5.  Alignment with Governance Processes.  SDDP work will generate information needed  to  support  the  documentation  requirements  of  JCIDS,  DoDI  5000.02  or  other   48  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 applicable governance processes. For example, at the end of Step 5, SDDP could support the  development  of  documentation  to  support  mandatory  reviews  or  other  decisions  as required  by  the  applicable  process  and  MDA  (i.e.  full  deployment  decision  (FDD)). Information captured at Step 5 should also support an MS C decision to approve initiation of  deployment  processes.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Project  Lead  to  assure  that  the appropriate documentation, reviews and decision gates are included in the IMS. 2.4.6.  Step  6  -  Deploy  and  Operate  Materiel  Solution  and  Measure  the  Success  of  the Capability Delivery. 2.4.6.1.  Purpose  of  the  Step: The purpose of Step 6 is to deploy the materiel solution, deliver capabilities that solve the user’s problem and satisfy the user’s needs, support the operation and sustainment of the materiel solution and measure success. 2.4.6.2.  Outcome of the Step.  The expected outcomes of Step 6 are: 2.4.6.2.1.  Fully operational materiel solution that meets the user’s needs and achieves the performance measures identified in Step 1. 2.4.6.2.2.  Platform environment prepared to operate and sustain the materiel solution for  the  duration  of  the  useful  life  of  the  materiel  solution,  and  to  retire  it  when directed by the Sponsor. 2.4.6.3.  Description  of  the  Step:  In  Step  6,  a  target  set  of  users  from  the  broader community  of  AF  users  (different  from  those  users  involved  in  the  design  of  the capability)  are  given  their  first  look  at  the  fully  functional  materiel  solution,  which essentially  serves  as  the  success  prototyping  required  by  DAS  and  NDAA  2010.  This limited  deployment  allows  the  Sponsor  and  Project  Lead  to  evaluate  the  successful performance  of  capability  in  terms  of  functionality,  performance  levels  and  service levels.  Positive  assessment  of  the  materiel  solution  and  verification  that  change management  was  adequate  leads  to  full-scale  deployment  to  the  entire  targeted  user community, and Step 6 closes the SDDP with an assessment of how well the DOTMLPF-P  implementation,  including  the  materiel  solution,  meets  the  users’  needs  or  solves  the users’ problem. Step 6 consists of four major tasks: 2.4.6.3.1.  Initiate  Deployment  Activities  for  Limited  Deployment.  The  ITLC commences  the  deployment  activities  by  updating  their  tasks  within  the  IMS  and allocating  sufficient  resources  to  conduct  the  final  testing  and  deployment.  The Project Lead works with the Sponsor, ITLC and ITT to recruit the users who will act as  SMEs  for  the  limited  deployment  testing.  In  parallel,  the  Project  Lead,  in partnership  with  the  Sponsor,  acquires  the  Authorization  to  Test  (ATT)  while  the ITLC  trains  Help  Desk  personnel  who  will  support  the  limited  deployment  testing. Platform  Engineering  defines  for  Network  Operations  the  changes  needed  to provision the Operational Environment with the IT resources necessary to support the materiel  solution  and  then  installs  the  materiel  solution  across  the  Operational Environment  to  support  the  limited  deployment  testing.  The  Sponsor  completes  the test  preparation  by  training  the  end  users  on  the  materiel  solution,  and  Network Operations  provisions  the  Operational  Environment  to  provide  access  to  the  limited deployment  to  the  selected  and  trained  users.  Network  Operations/Platform Engineering  conducts  a  final  assessment  of  the  limited  deployment.  Based  on  this AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   49  final  check,  the  Sponsor  makes  a  decision  to  proceed  to  the  limited  deployment testing  or,  if  additional  work  is  required  to  prepare  for  testing,  the  Sponsor  may choose  to  have  some  of  the  activities  in  this  Step  repeated.  In  the  final  assessment Network Operations/Platform Engineering checks that: 2.4.6.3.1.1.  All  components  of  the  materiel  solution  are  properly  installed  and operating. 2.4.6.3.1.2.  End users are adequately trained. 2.4.6.3.1.3.  Help desk is operational. 2.4.6.3.1.4.  Platform environment is prepared to support the testing. 2.4.6.3.2.  Perform User Evaluation of Limited Deployment.  The User Evaluation of  the  limited  deployment  is  a  full-scale  test  of  the  complete  materiel  solution  by  a limited  subset  of  the  user  community  in  live  operations.  The  user  community, selected in the previous activity, provides a sufficient breadth of experience to test all aspects of the materiel solution. The test is conducted in the Operational Environment with  live  data  during  the  actual  mission  operations,  defined  in  Step  2,  which  the materiel solution is intended to support. This activity begins with two parallel testing threads. The Testing Community conducts standard Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E)  to  ensure  the  limited  deployment  materiel  solution  functions  as  it  was intended  to  do  within  the  Operational  Environment.  The  Independent  Testers  also ensure  that  the  materiel  solution  meets  the  DoD  and  AF  mandated  performance measures.  Simultaneously,  the  selected  end  users  use  the  materiel  solution  during their  mission  operations  to  assess  how  well  the  materiel  solution  meets  their  needs and  solves  their  problems.  The  Sponsor  observes  the  User  Evaluation  and  may,  in some cases, actually participate to obtain first-hand knowledge of the performance of the materiel solution in meeting its objectives. The Sponsor assesses the results of the Independent Test and User Evaluation to determine if the materiel solution should be deployed across the Operational Environment. The Sponsor, in consultation with the project  team,  assesses whether the DOT-LPF-P capabilities necessary to  support  the materiel  solution  are  sufficient,  or  whether  additional  effort  is  needed.  The  Sponsor takes  these  factors  into  account  in  determining  whether  to  deploy  the  materiel solution. If additional work is required, the Sponsor determines where in the SDDP to return the materiel solution for rework. If the Sponsor decides the test results meet the requirements and support a deployment decision, the ITLC completes any final Help Desk  training,  and  the  Product  Lead,  in  partnership  with  the  Sponsor,  obtains  the Authorization to Operate (ATO). 2.4.6.3.3.  Conduct  Phased  User  Deployment  of  Materiel  Solution.  The  actual deployment  of  the  materiel  solution  to  the  entire  targeted  user  community  is accomplished  in  phases,  with  different  subsets  of  the  user  community  trained  and brought on-line with the materiel solution in sequence. The Sponsor trains each set of users in each phase, Platform Engineering provisions the Operational Environment to support  each  group  of  users  in  each  phase,  and  Network  Operations  provisions  the Operational Environment and the materiel solution to provide access to each group of users in each phase. Once access is granted, each group of users commences utilizing the  materiel  solution  during  mission  operations.  Once  all  phases  are  complete,  the   50  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Sponsor updates the  IMS to  show completion of the implementation  of the materiel solution. 2.4.6.3.4.  Conduct  Post  Implementation  Review  (PIR).  After  a  6-12  months period  of  use  of  the  materiel  solution  by  the  targeted  user  community,  the  Sponsor conducts  a  review  to  determine  the  success  of  the  DOTMLPF-P  solution  and  the materiel  solution  associated  with  the  DOTMLPF-P  Implementation  Plan.  The  PIR addresses  the  overall  performance  in  the  areas  of  user  satisfaction,  business  process improvements, cost improvements, technical evaluation and other factors as specified by  the  Sponsor.  This  performance  is  compared  with  the  intended  results  of  the DOTMLPF-P  Implementation  Plan  developed  in  Step  2  to  achieve  the  mission performance  measures  defined  in  Step  1.  The  Sponsor  assesses  the  impact  of  each component  of  the  DOTMLPF-P  Implementation  Plan  and  determines  whether  it meets its objectives. The Sponsor may determine that additional actions are required, including  commencing  a  new  SDDP  to  solve  new  problems  or  improve  certain aspects  of  the  DOTMLPF-P  implementation.  If  the  Sponsor  is  satisfied  with  the DOTMLPF-P implementation, the SDDP terminates and future assessments occur at the determination of the Sponsor. 2.4.6.3.5.  Alignment  with  Governance  Processes.    SDDP  work  will  generate information  needed  to  support  the  documentation  requirements  of  JCIDS,  DoDI 5000.02 or other applicable governance processes. For example, during Step 6, SDDP could  support  the  declaration  of  Initial  Operational  Capability  (IOC)  or  Full Operational Capability (FOC), as required by the applicable process and MDA. It is the  responsibility  of  the  Project  Lead  to  assure  that  the  appropriate  documentation, reviews and decision gates are included in the IMS.  MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt General, USAF Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   51  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ATTACHMENT 1 References NDAA 2005, Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 NDAA 2010, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 NDAA 2012, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 NDAA 2014, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 Subtitle III of Title 40 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996, 10 February 1996 10 USC 2222, Defense Business Systems: architecture, accountability and modernization, 7 Jan 2011 44 USC 3542(b) (2), Coordination of Federal Information Policy, 7 Jan 2011 Federal Enterprise Architecture OMB Circular A-11, Section 53, Information Technology and E-Government, 26 Jun 2008 DoDD 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS), 5 May 2004, Certified current as of 23 Apr, 2007 DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003, Certified current as of 20 Nov 2007 DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 25 Nov 2013 DoDI 5010.43, Implementation and Management of the DoD-Wide Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/LSS) Program, 17 Jul 2009 DoD Guidance for the Implementation of Section 1072, Business Process Reengineering, 30 Apr 2011 JCIDS Manual, 19 Jan 2012 JP 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 15 Nov 2011 AFPD 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, 6 Nov 2013 AFPD 33-4, Information Technology Governance, 17 Jan 2013 AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 Nov 2013 AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 Aug 2006 AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment Review, 23 Dec 2008 AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation Program, 23 Dec 2008 AFI 33-401, Air Force Architecting, 17 May 2011 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 Mar 2013 AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 Oct 2013   52  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008 Air Force Enterprise Architecture Framework Air Force Communities of Interest Panel Charter Air Force Enterprise Senior Working Group Charter Air Force Requirements Oversight Council Charter ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010, Recommended Practice for Architectural Description of Software- Intensive Systems, 7 Dec 2011 ISACA, October 15, 2004, IS Auditing Guidelines Post-Implementation Review Prescribed Forms No prescribed forms are implemented by this publication. Adopted Forms AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms ADS—Authoritative Data Source AF—Air Force AFB—Air Force Board AFC—Air Force Council AFG—Air Force Group AF EA—Air Force Enterprise Architecture AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Materiel Center AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center AFROC—AF Requirements Oversight Council AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century AF/CV—Air Force Vice Chief of Staff AoA—Analysis of Alternatives APB—Acquisition Program Baseline ATO—Authorization to Operate ATT—Authorization to Test AT&L—Acquisition, Technology and Logistics BEA—Business Enterprise Architecture AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   53  BMA—Business Mission Area BO—Business Outcome BPR—Business Process Re-engineering BRM—Business Reference Model C&A—Certification and Accreditation CCA—Clinger-Cohen Act CCB—Configuration Control Board CDD—Capability Development Document CDR—Critical Design Review CEIB—Consolidated Engineering IT Baseline CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator CM—Configuration Management CMO—Chief Management Officer COA—Course of Action COI—Community of Interest COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf CPD—Capability Production Document CPI/LSS—Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma DAA—Designated Accrediting Authority DAU—Defense Acquisition University DBC—Defense Business Council DBS—Defense Business Systems DCMO—Deputy Chief Management Officer DCR—DOTMLPF-P Change Recommendation DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency DISR—Defense Information Technology Standards and Profile Registry DoD—Department of Defense DOT&E—Director, Operational Test and Evaluation DOTMLPF-P—Doctrine,  Organization,  Training,  Materiel,  Leadership  and  Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy DOT-LPF-P—Doctrine,  Organization,  Training,  Leadership  and  Education,  Personnel, Facilities, and Policy DRM—Data Reference Model   54  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 DT&E—Development Test and Evaluation EA—Enterprise Architecture EDR—Example Data Record ESWG—Enterprise Senior Working Group FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation FDD—Full Deployment Decision FEA—Federal Enterprise Architecture FISMA—Federal Information Security Management Act FOA—Field Operating Agency FOC—Final Operational Capability FYDP—Future Years Defense Program GAO—Government Accountability Office GOTS—Government Off-the-Shelf HAF—Headquarters Air Force HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HLO—High Level Outcome IB—Implementation Baseline ICD—Initial Capabilities Document IMS—Integrated Master Schedule IOC—Initial Operational Capability IRB—Investment Review Board ISACA—Information Systems Audit and Control Association IT—Information Technology ITLC—Information Technology Lifecycle Capability iTRM—Infostructure Technology Reference Model ITT—Integrated Test Team JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System JROC—Joint Requirements Oversight Council LDTO—Lead Developmental Test and Evaluation Organization LRP—Legal, Regulatory and Policy MAJCOM—Major Command (USAF) MAIS—Major Automated Information System AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   55  MDA—Milestone Decision Authority MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program MDD—Materiel Development Decision MOE—Measure of Effectiveness MOP—Measure of Performance MS—Milestone NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act NETOPS—Network Operations NSS—National Security System OASIS—Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards OB—Operational Baseline OMB—Office of Management and Budget OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PEO—Program Executive Officer PIA—Privacy Impact Assessment PII—Personally Identifiable Information PIR—Post Implementation Review PM—Program Manager PMO—Program Management Office POC—Point of Contact POM—Program Objective Memorandum PTO—Participating Test Organization PRM—Performance Reference Model RACI—Responsible, Accountable, Consulted or Informed RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation REST—Representational State Transfer RIE—Rapid Improvement Event ROI—Return on Investment ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude RTM—Requirements Traceability Matrix SAF—Secretary of the Air Force   56  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 SDDP—Service Development and Delivery Process SDF—Standard Deployment Folder SEP—Systems Engineering Plan SLA—Service Level Agreement SMART—Specific, Measureable, Actionable, Relevant and Timely SME—Subject Matter Expert SRM—Service Reference Model TB—Target Baseline TCO—Total Cost of Ownership TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan TRM—Technical Reference Model T&E—Test and Evaluation UDM—Unit Deployment Manager UI—User Interface URL—Uniform Resource Locator USAF—United States Air Force WBS—Work Breakdown Structure WIP—Work in Progress W3C—World Wide Web Consortium Terms Accreditation—Certification  of  a  capability  to  be  compliant  with  technical,  security  and interoperability standards is assured. Air  Force  Corporate  Structure—Embodies  the  corporate  review  process  for  HQ  USAF.  It does  not  replace  the  functional  staff  but,  rather,  enhances  it  by  allowing  time  critical  or  time limited  functional  reviews  at  the  appropriate  levels.  The  deliberative  components  of  the Corporate  Structure  are  the  AFC,  the  AFB,  the  AFG  and  the  thirteen  Mission  and  Mission Support  Panels.  This  structure  increases  management  effectiveness  and  improves  cross-functional decision-making by providing a forum in which senior AF Leadership can apply their collective  judgment,  experience  and  analysis  to  major  programs,  objectives  and  issues.  This process  balances  programs  among  mission  areas,  between  force  structure  and  support,  and between  readiness,  modernization  and  transformation.  Additionally,  this  approach  ensures  the AF  program  is  capabilities-based  and  supports  the  Joint  warfighter.  Only  military  or  DoD civilian personnel assigned to the Air Staff or Office of the Secretary of the Air Force may serve as members of the corporate structure. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   57  Air  Force  Enterprise—All  MAJCOMs, HQ USAF offices,  agencies, installations, forces, and all operational mission and support activities that those organizations perform; represents the Air Force as a corporate entity and reflects the way the Air Force accomplishes its missions. Air  Force  Enterprise  Architecture  (AF  EA)—An  architecture  that  describes  the  Air  Force Enterprise.  The  AF  EA  includes  internal  Air  Force  elements  and  processes  and  their relationships.  The  AF  EA  also  defines  external  relationships  between  the  Air  Force  Enterprise and external enterprises (such as DoD, US Navy, etc.) (AFPD 33-4) Architecture—A  framework  or  structure  that  portrays  relationships  among  all  the  elements  of the  subject  force,  system,  or  activity.  (JP  1-02,  DoD  Dictionary  of  Military  and  Associated Terms).  The  fundamental  organization  of  a  system  embodied  in  its  components,  their relationships  to  each  other,  and  to  the  environment,  and  the  principles  guiding  its  design  and evolution.  (ISO/IEC/IEEE  42010)  It  is  the  structure  of  components,  their  relationships,  and  the principles  and  guidelines  governing  their  design  and  evolution  over  time.  (Federal  Enterprise Architecture) Auditable  Mission  Process  Model—An  in-depth  description  of  a  mission  process  from beginning to end. Each process is decomposed into its constituent activities or tasks, sometimes down to two or three levels of decomposition. The start event(s) that trigger the beginning of a process and the inputs provided at the start of the process are defined. The process Steps are the actual activities performed by an AF resource that occur between the beginning trigger and the end  output.  The  Steps  that  trigger  the  end  of  the  process  and  the  work  product  (output)  are clearly defined. Descriptive actions that take place at each Step, along with an explanation why each Step in the process is necessary, are included. Authoritative  Data  Source  (ADS)—The  point  at  which  information  is  first  captured  as  data. The most current, reliable, highest-quality data that captures the information. Authoritative  Data  Source  (ADS)  Mapping—A  list  of  the  actual  physical  repositories containing the ADS and source data that deliver the data elements identified in the EDR. Automated Information Asset—An electronically implemented information asset. Business  Case  Analysis—Assessment,  analysis  and  recommendation  regarding  the  reasoning for and viability  (financially, technically, practically) of pursuing a specific project  or business opportunity. The logic of the business case is that, whenever resources such as money or effort are  consumed,  they  should  be  in  support  of  a  specific  business  need  (e.g.,  improved  customer satisfaction,  reduced  task  time  or  reduced  maintenance  costs).  A  compelling  business  case adequately  captures  both  the  quantifiable  and  unquantifiable  characteristics  of  a  proposed project. Business Enterprise Architecture (BEA)—The enterprise architecture for the DoD that reflects the DoD business transformation priorities. Business Process Re-engineering (BPR)— The fundamental rethinking and radical redesign of business  processes  to  achieve  dramatic  improvements  in  critical  contemporary  measures  of performance, such as cost, quality, service, and speed. (DoDI 5010.43) Business Process Re-engineering (BPR) Assertion—The documentation, presentation and AF Senior  Leader  validation  of  BPR,  as  required  by  the  Clinger-  Cohen  Act  and,  in  the  case  of Defense Business System modernization with total cost of over $1M, by NDAA 2010. The BPR   58  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Assertion  is  needed  to  implement  an  IT-enabled  materiel  solution  beginning  in  Step  3  of  the SDDP.  BRM  information  and  the  DOTMLPF-P  Implementation  Plan,  generated  in  Step  2,  are used to assert BPR sufficiency. Business Reference Model (BRM)—A function-driven framework used to describe the lines of business  and  sub-functions  performed  by  the  federal  government  independent  of  the  agencies that  perform  them.  IT  investments  are  mapped  to  the  BRM  to  identify  collaboration opportunities. (OMB Circular A-11, Section 53) Business Rule—A definition of how a task identified in the Auditable Mission Process Model is completed.  Business  rules  can  also  define  the  constraints  for  a  task,  articulating  how  a  task  is completed in  terms  of performance, such as the  time in  which the task  must be completed, the scope of the information produced or consumed during the task. Capability—The  ability  to  achieve  a  desired  effect  under  specified  standards  and  conditions through combinations of means and ways across the full spectrum of DOTMLPF-P to perform a set  of  tasks  to  execute  a  specified  COA.  It  is  defined  by  an  operational  user  and  expressed  in broad  operational  terms  in  the  format  of  an  initial  capabilities  document  or  a  DOTMLPF-P change recommendation. Capability Need—A capability identified through a capabilities-based assessment required to be able to perform a task within specified conditions to a required level of performance. Certification—A statement of adequacy provided by a responsible agency for a specific area of concern in support of the validation process. Certification  and  Accreditation  (C&A)—A process for implementing information security. It is a systematic procedure for evaluating, describing, testing and authorizing systems prior to or after a system is in operation. Clinger- Cohen Act (CCA)—This statute is the principal federal law on information technology (IT). Originally enacted as the Information Technology Management Reform Act, Division E of Public Law 104-106, the law’s primary purpose is to provide a framework for the role of the CIO in federal agencies and how the CIO should be involved in IT investments or IT acquisitions that support an agency’s mission. Community  of  Interest  (COI)  Charter—A  project  charter  to  establish  a  COI  to  generate detailed information requirements for the materiel solution. Compliance  Completion  Plan—A plan that sets out how the compliance requirements for the materiel solution will be satisfied, either through assertion, review or test. Compliance  Requirement—An  identification  of  the  certifications  and  accreditations  required for the materiel solution. Constraint—An  external  restriction  or  mandate  that  must  be  considered  when  defining  and developing a solution. Contextual Model—A description of the specific mission processes within the BRM that will be supported by the materiel solution. Context is added to each process Step through more in-depth descriptions of the process Steps, end user design concept, the flow of information between the mission processes and the business rules and access roles/permissions associated with each Step AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   59  of the process. Initial service descriptions for each mission process are specified as derived from the Step 1 performance measures and decomposed to align with each mission process Step. Contracting—The  skill  set  needed  to  capture  a  specific  requirement  or  deliverable  into  a contract assigned to a specific vendor for delivery. The authority to enter into contracts on behalf of the Government is restricted to a Contracting Officer with an appropriate warrant. Cost Estimate—Cost estimates, as captured in the AFMAN, are initially very rough, high- level estimates  of  resources  needed  to  delivery  described  capability.  Over  the  course  of  the  SDDP process those cost estimates are informed and become more and more precise. Course  of  Action—A  planning  and  decision  process  that  culminates  in  a  sponsor  decision.  It principally  refers  to  the  decision  whether  to  proceed  with  development  of  one  or  more prospective materiel solutions. Critical  Design  Review  (CDR)—A  multi-disciplined  technical  review  to  ensure  that  a  system can  proceed  into  fabrication,  demonstration,  and  test  and  can  meet  stated  performance requirements within cost, schedule, risk, and other system constraints. Data Validation—The process of ensuring that a capability has correct and useful data required by the information flows supporting the processes enabled by the capability. Data Reference Model (DRM)—A framework used to promote the common identification, use and appropriate sharing of data/information across the federal government. It provides standards and guidelines to help agencies structure, categorize, exchange and manage their data to improve the  ability  of  government  to  perform  cross-  agency  information  sharing.  (OMB  Circular  A-11, Section 53) Defense  Business  System—An  information  system,  other  than  a  national  security  system, operated by, for or on behalf of the Department of Defense, including financial systems, mixed systems,  financial  data  feeder  systems,  and  information  technology  and  information  assurance infrastructure,  used  to  support  business  activities,  such  as  acquisition,  financial  management, logistics,  strategic  planning  and  budgeting,  installations  and  environment,  and  human  resource management. (NDAA 2005 and NDAA 2012) Distributed Computing Requirement—A description of the materiel solution’s requirement to have  components  distributed  to  different  locations  to  support  warfighter  needs,  performance requirements, service level agreements or other mission critical service or function. Defense Information Technology Standards and Profile Registry (DISR)—Online repository of IT standards formerly captured in the Joint Technical Architecture. DOT-LPF-P  Change  Management  Plan—A  description of all DOT-LPF-P actions necessary to make the materiel solution (the M within DOTMLPF-P) operational and sustainable. DOTMLPF-P  Capability—A specific action or portion of a DOTMLPF-P solution that, when completed  or  deployed,  has  standalone  value  to  the  warfighter.  A  collection  of  DOTMLPF-P capabilities, within the context of the SDDP, will solve the end user’s problem or satisfy the end user’s need. Enterprise Architect—A person responsible for developing the enterprise architecture and often called upon to draw conclusions from it. By producing enterprise architecture, architects provide   60  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 a tool for identifying opportunities to improve the enterprise, in a manner that more effectively and efficiently pursues its purpose. Enterprise  Architecture  (EA)—A  management  practice  for  aligning  resources  to  improve business performance and help agencies better execute their core missions. An EA describes the current and future state of the agency and lays out a plan for transitioning from the current state to 2007, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/fea_docs/FEA_Practice_Guidance_Nov_2007.pdf) Practice  Guidance dated  Nov the desired future state. (FEA EA  Analysis—An activity whereby the EA is referenced to inform a decision. An EA analysis can  identify  opportunities  for  reuse,  inform  legal,  regulatory  and  policy  constraints,  identify dependent  or  tangential  process  and  help  to  capture  impacts  to  those  processes  caused  by changes to a specific process. Enterprise- Level Dependency—An association among mission processes that (1) describe the interdependence  between  process  Steps,  (2)  are  based  on  information,  materials  or  other resources, and (3) describe the influence of time events on the execution of processes. Example Data Record (EDR)—A list of the data elements that compose the information assets specified for detailing by the COI. Federal  Enterprise  Architecture  (FEA)—Enterprise  architecture  of  the  federal  government that provides a methodology for IT acquisition, use and disposal. FEA includes in its reference models the PRM, BRM, SRM, TRM and DRM. Finance—The skill set needed to assure that funding is available to support the implementation of  a  materiel  solution.  The  Finance  Team  will  assist  with  characterization  of  funding  profile (what  type  of  money  is  needed  when),  as  well  as  verify  that  the  business  case  supporting  a materiel solution is adequate to justify the expenditure of resources. Functional  Organization—A domain focused on a specific type of mission activity or process (i.e., Logistics or Acquisition). Typically represented by a Headquarters Air Force office (AF/A4 or SAF/AQ). Functional  Requirements—A  definition  of  the  automated  processes  that  will  be  implemented within the materiel solution. Funding  Profile—A  description  of  what  type  of  funding  (i.e.,  procurement,  research  and development, operations and maintenance) is needed when (year and quarter) in order to satisfy the implementation requirements for the materiel solution. Governance—The management activity of overseeing a capability implementation to assure that the capability delivered meets legal, regulatory and policy compliance criteria, that the delivery of  the  capability  makes  sense  in  terms  of  return  against  the  requested  investment  funding,  and that  the  implementation  plan  is  sufficient  to  deliver  the  capability  within  the  time-to-need specified by the user. Governance  Package—The  documentation  required  for  the  certifications  and  accreditations necessary  for  the  Sponsor  to  obtain  authorization  to  spend  funds  on  implementing  the  materiel solution as required by the appropriate governance bodies. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   61  Information  Asset—The  information  that  is  consumed  during  a  task  within  the  Auditable Mission Process Model, as well as the information that is produced during the completion of the task.  An  information  asset  is  a  definable  piece  of  information,  stored  in  any  manner,  which  is recognized as valuable to an organization. Information Exchange Requirement—An identification of the information that flows between the  materiel  solution,  as  defined  by  the  Contextual  Model,  and  the  external  sources  and destinations  of  the  information.  The  information  exchange  requirements  also  include  internal exchanges between the processes within the materiel solution that are likely candidates for reuse by other materiel solutions. Information  Flow—A  description  of  the  manner  in  which  information  assets  move  from  one step to another in a process. An information flow begins with a description of who supplies the information  and  concludes  with  a  description  of  the  end  product  and  identification  of  the consumer. Information Get—A description of the information needed to support a specific step or task in a mission process. For example, training status information would be an Information Get needed to determine  whether  an  Airman  needs  training.  The  contents  of  the  information  (course information,  date  completed,  etc.)  are  captured  in  the  Information  Asset  that  describes  the Information Get. Information  Put—A  description  of  the  information  generated  as  a  result  of  a  specific  Step  or task  in  a  mission  process,  which  is  passed  along  the  process  to  support  other  down-  stream steps/tasks. For example, an Information Put may be a report of an Airman’s training status. The contents  of  the  information  (training  requirements,  dates  on  which  requirements  were  met  and how, etc.) are captured in the Information Asset that describes the Information Put. Information  Technology  Lifecycle  Capability  (ITLC)—The  set  of  capabilities  needed  to provide  1)  development  and  test  environments  to  support  the  delivery  of  capability  within  the SDDP,  2)  enterprise-level  Help  Desk,  and  3)  enterprise-level  system  engineering  and  software sustainment support. Infrastructure  Requirement—A  description  of  capabilities  or  services  that  the  platform environment requires in order to deploy and operate the materiel solution. Integrated Master Schedule (IMS)—The schedule of all activities, across all skill sets, needed to  implement  a  materiel  solution.  A  baselined  schedule  is  used  to  assess  progress  against  the planned delivery of capability. Integrated  Test  Team  (ITT)—A  cross-functional  team  of  representatives  from  multiple disciplines and organizations responsible for developing the test and evaluation strategy. IT  Dashboard—A  specific  format  requested  by  the  DBC  that  presents  certain  information regarding a system and the status of its implementation. IT Service—An automated capability that employs web-based technology to deliver information and functionality to requesters. The service is reusable and can be accessible to either human or automated requesters, or both. A service can consist of the following:       -  One or more web services -  One or more web services with a web application   62  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 -  One or more web services with a persistent data repository -  One or more web services with a web application and a persistent data repository -  Legacy web application (interacts directly with a non-web service application) with or without a repository. Legal, Regulatory and Policy (LRP) Requirements—All Federal laws and Federal, DoD and AF regulations and policies that affect or are affected by the identified need. Materiel  Implementation  (M-Implementation)  Plan—The plan for developing/acquiring and delivering  the  materiel  solution.  The  plan  should  include  all  activities  needed  across  skill  sets (e.g., architecture, system engineering, acquisition, funding, contracting, governance, testing and evaluation, and compliance). Materiel Solution—Correction of a deficiency, satisfaction of a capability gap, or incorporation of new technology that results in the development, acquisition, procurement or fielding of a new item  (including ships, tanks, self-propelled weapons, aircraft, etc., and  related software, spares, repair  parts  and  support  equipment,  but  excluding  real  property,  installations  and  utilities) necessary to equip, operate, maintain and support military activities without disruption as to its application  for  administrative  or  combat  purposes.  (DoDD  4630.05)  Within  the  context  of  the SDDP,  the  materiel  solution  is  focused  on  the  acquisition  or  development  of  Information Technologies, specifically software. Measure  of  Effectiveness  (MOE)—Metrics  that  are  used  to  measure  mission  success  and  are specific to the conditions under which a mission will be executed. Measure  of  Performance  (MOP)—Measure  used  to  determine  task  performance  and  the conditions  under  which  the  tasks  are  performed.  Static  MOPs  include  metrics  that  can  be measured  through  simple  observation.  Dynamic  MOPs  are  metrics  that  are  measured  during actual operation of the IT Capability. Milestone—Date for completion of activities or deliverables. Milestone  Decision  Authority—The  designated  individual  with  overall  responsibility  for  a program who has authority to approve entry of an acquisition program into the next phase of the acquisition  process  and  shall  be  accountable  for  cost,  schedule,  and  performance  reporting  to higher authority, including congressional reporting. (DoDD5000.01) Mission  Critical  Requirement—A  characterization  of  criticality  and  priority  of  need  from  a warfighter or user perspective. National Security System (NSS)—Any telecommunications or information system operated by the US Government, the function, operation or use of which (1) involves intelligence activities; (2) involves cryptologic activities related to national security; (3) involves command and control of military forces; (4) involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or (5) is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (excluding systems used  for  routine  administrative  and  business  applications  (including  payroll,  finance,  logistics and personnel management applications). (44 USC 3542(b)(2)) Need/Problem  Statement—A  general  statement  that  describes  clearly  the  situation  causing inefficiencies  and  work  delays.  The  need  statement  includes  an  outline  of  what  the  need  is, defines the problems that arise from the need, describes why the need is important, identifies the AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   63  AF Senior Leadership that will support the initiative, details what improvements will result from the proposed changes and describes how the need is carried out. Network  Operations—The  operation  and  monitoring  of  platform  and  applications  deployed onto the platform. Onboarding—The capture of activities necessary to prepare the platform environment to receive a new capability. Onboarding activities are captured within the IMS. Onboarding Compliance—An identification of any protocols, standards or other constraints, to which the materiel solution must adhere in order to be deployed, operated and sustained within the platform environment. Onboarding Plan—A definition of the actions to be completed to onboard the materiel solution into the platform environment for operation and sustainment. Ontology—A  semantic  representation  of  the  information  assets,  as  well  as  the  associated authoritative  and  source  data,  to  ensure  the  understandability  and  discoverability  of  the information asset and its associated authoritative and source data. Performance Attribute—A description of the components that make up the successful delivery of capability (performance measure). Performance  Measure—A  description  of  the  successful  delivery  of  capability  in  terms  of desired outcomes. Performance Measures are sometimes referred to as Measures of Success. Performance  Metric—A  point  at  which  performance  attributes  are  monitored.  A  metric  is  a quantitative measure of the degree to which a capability possesses a given attribute. Performance Parameters—Acceptable boundary conditions for the performance metrics. Performance Reference Model (PRM)—The PRM is a framework to measure the performance of  major  IT  initiatives  and  their  contribution  to  program  performance.  The  PRM  will  help agencies:  produce  enhanced  performance  information;  improve  the  alignment  and  better articulate the contribution of inputs, such  as technology, to  outputs and  outcomes;  and identify improvement opportunities that span traditional organizational boundaries. Persistent Data Repository—A database, XML repository, file directory, flat file or other such data structure that maintains data either consumed or generated by the web services at the behest of a requester. Platform Engineering—Engineering activities to prepare the platform environment to receive a materiel solution or to inform the technical implementation of the materiel solution to assure that it deploys successfully into the platform environment. Platform  Environment—The hosting environment into which the capability will be deployed. The platform environment includes the IT infrastructure, computing resources and facilities, and enterprise  services  such  as  security  and  monitoring,  that  are  necessary  to  deploy,  operate  and sustain the materiel solution. The platform environment includes the Development, Testing and Operational Environments. Platform Service Order—Platform Service Order gives instructions and directions to Platform Engineering and Network Operations and includes those orders to take those actions necessary to configure the Platform in order to deploy the IT capability successfully.   64  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Process Team—The team responsible for understanding, explaining and capturing their mission processes and identifying areas where processes could be improved. Program  Executive  Officer  (PEO)—An  individual  within  the  AF  Acquisition  community assigned  responsibilities  for  a  specific  program  or  a  portfolio  of  programs  and  projects  that together provide a specific capability set. Program Office—The organization or team responsible for the delivery of a specific warfighter capability. Project  Lead—Individual  with  responsibility  for  the  planning,  execution  and  closing  of  the materiel  solution.  The  project  lead  is  responsible  to  track  process  against  cost,  schedule  and performance and to manage resources (money and manpower) assigned to the project. Prototype—An early sample or model built to test a concept or process and specifically to test the  design  of  an  IT  capability  to  assure  it  functions  correctly  and  delivers  the  required capabilities. RACI  Matrix—  Listing  of  roles/responsibilities  in  terms  of  Responsible,  Accountable, Consulted or Informed; and other items necessary to manage the activity effectively. Representational State Transfer (REST)—A type of web service where each unique URL is a representation of some object. Resource—An individual with specific skill sets to help conduct the work. Resourcing—An  identification  of  the  requisite  organizational,  personnel,  facility  and  funding necessary to implement the materiel solution successfully. Responsible,  Accountable,  Consulted  or  Informed  (RACI)  Matrix—Listing  of  who  is Responsible, Accountable, Consulted or Informed of various activities within the set of work. It is  especially  useful  in  clarifying  roles  and  responsibilities  in  cross-functional/  departmental projects and processes. Reusable  Artifact—A  product  generated  by  previous  COIs  that  can  be  reused  by  a  COI  for  a materiel solution. Reuse—Identifying  and  incorporating  into  a  materiel  solution  capabilities  already  owned  or operated within the DoD or AF, in order to same time, money and inherit compliance against the reusable capability. Reuse  Component—An  existing  web  service,  COTS/GOTS  component  or  system  component that can supply a proposed materiel solution with all or portions of a service layering, functional requirements,  information  exchanges  or  information  assets  that  are  already  defined  and implemented through some other materiel solution. Requirements  Traceability  Matrix  (RTM)—A  document  that  provides  alignment  from  the original  statement  of  a  requirement  to  the  delivery  of  capability.  A  requirements  trace  is  bi-directional  between  various  associated  requirements  and  the  implementation  of  those requirements. Roles and Permissions—Identification of personnel who have access to each information asset, the authoritative and source data, and the criteria for assignment to access. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   65  Service—The means by which the needs of a consumer are brought together with the capabilities of a provider. (http://docs.oasis-open.org/soa-rm/v1.0/soa-rm.html) Service  Development  and  Delivery  Process  (SDDP)—the  end-to-end  process  by  which capability-supporting mission processes are identified, described, developed and deployed. Service  Layering—A definition of the individual  services that will be implemented within the materiel solution. Service  Level—A  description  of  the  technical  performance  parameters  for  each  service, including  response  times  and  availability.  Service  Levels  are  derived  from  the  Step  1 performance measures that are associated with the mission processes included in the Conceptual Model. Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA)—A description of the official service levels that the materiel solution  will  be  able  to  meet  once  it  is  deployed,  operated  and  sustained  within  the  platform environment. Service  Monitoring  Requirement—A description of the levels of service monitoring required from  the  platform  environment  during  the  deployment  and  sustainment  phases  of  the  materiel solution. Service Reference Model (SRM)—A description of the functions and services that the materiel solution must deliver in order to solve the end user’s problem and/or satisfy the end user’s needs. The  SRM  information  must  be  at  a  sufficient  level  of  completeness,  consistency  and  detail  to prepare a bounded user requirement sufficient to select a satisfactory COTS product or develop software code to deliver the materiel solution successfully. Skill  Set—Each  swim  lane  within  the  SDDP  process  charts  captures  tasks  done  by  a  specific skill set. The charts do not identify the organizations that may be responsible to bring those skill sets to the AF user. Sponsor—The individual or organization responsible for documentation, periodic reporting, and funding actions necessary to support the delivery of needed capabilities (e.g., MAJCOM, FOA). Subject  Matter  Expert  (SME)—An  individual  that  has  actual  experience  in  the  mission  or process being defined; typically, the warfighter. System Engineering—The skill set needed to design the materiel solution. System engineering must  address  architectures,  design,  technical  management,  test  and  evaluation,  verification  and validation, environment, safety, and occupational health, and human systems integration. These fundamental elements must be accomplished. Task—A work item that must be completed by identified resources. Technical  Reference  Model  (TRM)—A  foundation  used the  standards, specifications  and  technologies  supporting  the  delivery,  exchange  and  construction  of  business (or service) components and E-Government solutions. The TRM unifies existing agency TRMs and E-Government guidance by providing a foundation to advance the re- use of technology and component services from a government-wide perspective. (OMB Circular A-11) to  describe Test  and  Evaluation  Master  Plan  (TEMP)—A  document  detailing  the  overall  structure  and objectives  of  the  enterprise  T&E  program.  The  TEMP  provides  a  framework  within  which  to   66  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 generate detailed T&E plans and documents schedule and resource implications associated with the T&E program. Testing—The skill set needed to assure that a capability as implemented functions as designed and satisfies the user’s need/problem statement. Timeline—Length of time allocated for the tasks to be completed by the resources. Topology  Requirement—A  modification  to  the  physical  location  of  computers,  network connections or core platform services, or a modification to the capacity provided by the platform environment that is required in order to deploy and operate the materiel solution. Vocabulary Package—A complete product of COI work that is made up of the ADS mapping, roles and permissions, example data records and ontology. Web  Application—A  Java-based  or  other  type  of  application  that  provides  a  human-user interface to the capabilities delivered by a set of web services. The web application includes user interface  screens  and  presentation  services  generally  delivered  through  HTML  or  other  similar protocol standard. Web Service—Either a SOAP-based or REST service that delivers information and functionality at the request of a consumer. Web  Services  Code  Requirements—A  description  of  the  requirements  to  implement  a  web service or set of web services as part of the materiel solution. Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)—A tool used to define and group a project's discrete work elements in a way that helps organize and define the total work scope of the project. Work Plan—A charter or plan to perform specific work. Within the SDDP, a work plan is often focused  on  completing  a  single  Step  of  the  SDDP  and  typically  consists  of  Tasks,  Resources, Timelines,  Milestones,  RACI  Matrix  and  other  items  necessary  to  manage  the  activity effectively. Tasks – List of work items that must be completed by identified resources; Resources – List of individuals with specific skill sets to help conduct the work; Timelines – Length of time allocated for the tasks to be completed by assigned resources; Milestones – Dates for completion of actions or deliverables; *RACI Matrix – Listing of roles/responsibilities in terms of Responsible, Accountable, Consulted or Informed; and Other items necessary to manage the activity effectively.   AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   67  Attachment 2 PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT WITHIN THE SDDP A2.1.  Introduction.  Performance Measurement within the SDDP is an iterative decomposition of the initial Step 1 Performance Measures used to define the successful delivery of DOTMLPF-P  capabilities  to  solve  the  sponsor’s  problem.  These  measures  can  then  be  used  as  testable performance requirements for the Materiel Solution. The performance requirements can be used in  both  Operational  Test  and  Evaluation  (OT&E)  and  in  Development  Test  and  Evaluation (DT&E).  Performance  Measurement  is  accomplished  through  the  specification  of  categories  of performance  indicators  that  are  associated  directly  with  specific  products  generated  during  an SDDP Initiative. A2.2.  Performance Indicator Definitions. A2.2.1.  Performance Measures.  A Performance Measure is a description of the successful delivery of capability in terms of desired outcomes. The Performance Measures are linked to the  DOTMLPF-P  Capabilities  to  indicate  when  each  of  those  capabilities  has  been successfully implemented. These Performance Measures serve as the basis for all subsequent Measures.  Since  SDDP  DOTMLPF-P  Capabilities  are  synonymous  to  the  High  Level Outcomes  that  are  defined  in  acquisition  policy,  Performance  Measures  are  also  directly linked to the High Level Outcomes. These measures are sometimes referred to as Measures of Success, not to be confused with Measures of Suitability. A2.2.2.  Measures of Effectiveness (MOE).  The JCIDS Manual 19 Jan 2012 Appendix F to  Enclosure  B  defines  a  Measure  of  Effectiveness  as  metrics  that  are  used  to  measure mission  success  and  are  specific  to  the  conditions  under  which  a  mission  will  be  executed. Within  the  SDDP,  a  Measure  of  Effectiveness  indicates  when  a  re-engineered  business process  is  being  executed  optimally.  Measures  of  Effectiveness  can  be  time-oriented  or capacity-based, such as volume of transactions through a process. Measures of Effectiveness are used to describe Business Outcomes (BO) in acquisition guidance. A2.2.3.  Measures of Performance (MOP).  The JCIDS Manual 19 Jan 2012 Appendix F to  Enclosure  B  defines  a  Measure  of  Performance  as  a  measure  used  to  determine  task performance  and  the  conditions  under  which  the  tasks  are  performed.  Within  the  Materiel Solution  of  the  SDDP,  these  MOPs  view  the  tasks  to  be  performed  as  the  IT  Performance Requirements  that  the  Materiel  Solution  must  perform  and  that  are  included  in  the  IT Capability  specifications.  Performance  requirements  are  attributes  of  IT  requirements, specifically  IT  Functional  Requirements  and  Information  Assets  that  indicate  when  an  IT Capability is performing optimally and meeting its end user needs. Performance requirements are two types, static and dynamic MOPs. Static MOPs include metrics that can be measured through  simple  observation,  such  as  information  storage  capacity  represented  by  a  specific number of documents that an IT Capability must be able to store online. Dynamic MOPs are metrics  that  are  measured  during  actual  operation  of  the  IT  Capability,  such  as  response times or availability measures. A2.3.  Relationships  among  Performance  Indicators.  Performance  indicators,  including Performance  Measures,  MOEs,  and  MOPs,  do  not  exist  as  individual  requirements  within  the SDDP. Each of these types of performance indicators is actually an attribute of another type of requirement. Performance Measures are attributes of the DOTMLPF-P Deployable Capabilities.   68  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 MOEs  are  attributes  of  the  re-  engineered  business  processes  resulting  from  Step  2.  MOPs  are attributes  of  the  IT  Functional  Requirements  and  Information  Asset  Requirements  identified  in Step 3. These relationships are depicted in Table A2.1.   In addition to these relationships, there is an inherent relationship between the different types of performance indicators. Since certain aspects of the DOTMLPF-P Capabilities are delivered through re-engineered business processes, the MOEs associated with each business process are also associated with the Performance Measures for the DOTMLPF-P Capabilities that each business process supports. Similarly, each MOP is associated with each MOE for the business process to which each IT Functional Requirement or Information Asset must provide support. Table A2.1.  Mapping of Performance Measures. SDDP Step SDDP Product Performance Indicator Acquisition Policy Step 1 DOTMLPF-P Capabilities  Performance Measures  High Level Outcomes (HLO) Step 2 Step 3 Re-engineered Business Processes Measures of Effectiveness (MOE) Business Objectives (BO) IT Functional Requirements/Information Assets Measures of Performance (MOP) N/A A2.4.  Applicability.  Performance  measurement  supports  multiple  activities  within  an  SDDP Initiative. A2.4.1.  The Performance Measures are used at the enterprise level to determine whether the execution of the DOTMLPF-P Implementation Plan resulted in the targeted improvements to the  performance  of  the  Sponsor’s  organization  that  was  driving  the  SDDP  effort.  The Sponsor’s organizational performance may be measured at individual organizational units or at the Air Force enterprise level. A2.4.2.  MOEs  can  be  used  to  derive  the  Operational  Test  and  Evaluation  (OT&E)  test procedures  and scripts.  The MOEs enable the  Independent  Test  Team  to define OT&E test procedures and scripts that determine how well the Materiel Solution support the work that is being done by the end users, as represented by the re-engineered business processes to which the MOEs apply. A2.4.3.  The MOPs are used to generate the test procedures and scripts for Development Test and  Evaluation  (DT&E).  The  MOPs  assist  the  Independent  Test  Team  in  evaluating  the successful implementation of each of the IT Functional Requirements and Information Asset Requirements associated with each MOP. A2.5.  Example.  Table A2.2 depicts an example of the derivation of performance measurement in an SDDP Initiative. In the example, the DOTMLPF-P Capability identified in the PRM is the Lifecycle  Case  Management,  providing  greater  management  control  over  the  cases  that  are presented to Review Boards within the USAF. The current situation is marked by a large backlog of  cases  and  cases  that  take  longer  to  adjudicate  than  what  is  mandated  by  legal  and  statutory requirements.  A  performance  measure  indicating  that  the  Lifecycle  Case  Management DOTMLPF-P Capability has been implemented successfully is that there is less than 5% of the AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   69  total number of cases that exceed the legal or statutory deadlines for adjudication. Ideally there would  never  be  a  case  that  took  longer  than  the  mandated  statutory  requirements,  but  it  is unrealistic  to  set  a  target  which  cannot  be  guaranteed  to  be  met.  The  re-engineered  business process necessary to deliver this DOTMLPF-P Capability is the Case Adjudication Process. That process  has  a  MOE  of  8  months  to  adjudicate  each  case  which  is  less  than  the  statutory requirement of 10 months. Finally the MOP for the ITFR is that the Materiel Solution must be able to rapidly ingest the case documentation for 10,000 cases in a year. This would most likely not be the only MOP for that ITFR, as there will likely be an MOP that dictates how quickly the ITFR must ingest each set of case documentation. The example shows the derivation of a MOP in support of the MOE to complete adjudication of a case within 8 months. Table A2.2.  Example of SDDP Performance Measurement. Requirement Performance Indicator DOTMLPF-P Capability: Performance Measure: Lifecycle Case Management Business Process: Case Adjudication ITFR: Ingest Case Documentation  Fewer than 5% of cases take longer to adjudicate than mandated by legal or statutory requirements MOE: Complete Case Adjudication in 8 months, instead of statutory requirement of 10 months MOP: Ingest 10,000 cases per year. Given a 40 hour work week for 50 weeks this equates to ingesting one case every 12 minutes, so the ITFR must be completed in 12 minutes.   70  AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014 Attachment 3 PLATFORM ENVIRONMENT AND BASELINES A3.1.  The  SDDP  is  enhanced  by,  but  not  dependent  upon,  a  centrally  managed  and configuration-controlled platform environment. The AF Chief Information Officer (CIO)/A6, Air Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC)  through  the  AFLCMC,  and  Air  Force  Space  Command (AFSPC)  are  working  to  provision  this  platform  environment.  The  platform  environment  will comprise any number of different platform service implementations and components, including AF, DoD or commercial platform services, as provided by AFSPC, either organically or through agreement or contract. In order to facilitate the SDDP reader in understanding the capabilities the platform  environment  will  bring,  the  following  terms  are  defined,  refer  to  AFPD  33-4  for additional details: Table A3.1.  Term Definition (AFPD 33-4). Baseline Description Governance The AF CEIB CCB will be the controlling body for all changes to AF CEIB documentation. This CCB reviews and approves/ disapproves configuration item instantiations and change requests to existing configuration items. Approved items are submitted to the AF CIO Council by the AF Chief Technology Officer (CTO) for validation. The IB is governed by the ITLC or Enterprise System Engineering function and validated by the CTO. Target CIO/CTO Phase The “To Be” Implementation ACQUISITION Phase The TB specifies the standards, protocols, guidelines and implementation constraints for the future state of the AF IT infrastructure. It is used to inform the development of the implementation baseline. The TB is thoroughly documented and continually updated based upon emerging industry standards and the evolving AF EA. The IB is the associated baseline of acquisition selected products and their target baseline informed/ allowed configurations that implement the architecture, standards, protocols and guidelines specified in the TB. The IB informs the OB of the acquisition selected products and how they are to be configured to support deployment of user applications across the infrastructure topology. The IB governs the implementation of the Development and Integration/Test environments. AFMAN33-402  25 SEPTEMBER 2014   71  The OB is managed by the th AF validated by the ITLC 24or Enterprise System Engineering function and validated by the CTO. Operational RUN TIME Phase The “As Is”   The OB is the set of components of the IB appropriately configured and deployed across the topology of the AF IT infrastructure that implements the architecture, standards, protocols and guidelines specified in the TB and provide the required warfighter capabilities and performance. It specifies the exact lay-down and configurations of hardware and software within all facilities in the AF infrastructure topology. The figure below depicts the relationship between the baselines as described in AFPD 33-4. Figure A3.1.  Baseline Process View.   