BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MANUAL 48-15428 MARCH 2007Certified Current 22 March 2010Aerospace MedicineOCCUPATIONAL AND ENVIRONMENTALHEALTH SITE ASSESSMENTCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing web site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this document. OPR: AFMOA/SG3PBCertified by: SG/SG3  (Major General Loftus)Pages: 18This manual standardizes procedures for developing and executing occupational and environmentalhealth site assessments (OEHSA). This manual also provides guidance for occupational and environmen-tal health (OEH) surveillance activities in both home station (i.e., garrison) and expeditionary (i.e.,deployed) settings. This AFMAN, in concert with AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment, satisfiesrequirements and procedures for executing OEH surveillance. AFMOA/SGPB Field Manual, Bioenviron-mental Engineering OEHSA, is the companion document for this AFMAN and provides the details to exe-cute comprehensive OEH site assessments and develop associated sampling strategies. Current OEHprograms are required to transition to the requirements identified in this AFMAN, and tools in the fieldmanual should be used to execute the OEHSA. This AFMAN applies to all Air Force (AF) personnel (active and reserve components) and the AirNational Guard (ANG) in both home station and expeditionary settings. This manual does not apply toemployees and private contractors performing work under government contracts, or state workers. Con-tractors and States are solely responsible for compliance with OSHA standards and the protection of theiremployees. This does not prohibit providing sampling and survey information to side-by-side contractorsand State employees based on local arrangements. Send comments and suggested improvements on AFForm 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication, through major commands to AFMOA/SGPB,110 Luke Avenue, Room 405, Bolling AFB, DC 20032-7050. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained inaccordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the AirForce Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. 2AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007Chapter 1  INTRODUCTION 1.1.  Overview.  1.1.1.  The OEHSA is the key operational health tool for producing data or information used for healthrisk assessments (HRA) and to satisfy OEH surveillance requirements. OEHSAs focus on collectingsite-specific data to identify potential or actual exposure pathways during bed down, employ, and sus-tainment of air and space forces. OEHSAs are also the mechanism for providing OEH inputs into thedevelopment of base support and expeditionary site plans. As a result, the inputs identify and quantifyOEH threats impacting mission and operational success. The primary objectives of an OEHSA are to: 1.1.1.1.  Identify OEH threats or hazards and potential adverse heath effects and impacts 1.1.1.2.  Collect and document OEH exposure data (including demographic and occupationaldata) for the service member’s longitudinal exposure record (LER) 1.1.1.3.  Inform commanders of health threats and risk mitigation options through HRA 1.1.1.4.  Reduce or eliminate health risks and maximize operations 1.1.1.5.  Mitigate encroachment on mission capability 1.1.1.6.  Support health surveillance 1.1.2.  The OEHSA process provides a standardized OEH framework for developing sampling strate-gies, selecting monitoring equipment, and collecting samples. This process is used to implement therequirements outlined in AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, andAFMAN 48-146, Occupational and Environmental Health Program and Information Management.The OEHSA process does not generate new reports outside of the aforementioned guidance andBioenvironmental Engineering (BE) management information systems (i.e., Command Core Systemand Global Expeditionary Medical System) are the repository for OEHSA data collected. OEHSAssupply data for the Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Data (OEHED) and is the formor report used for communicating exposures, establishing medical monitoring requirements, and arethe inputs into the LER. The OEHSA via the HRA provides the information that enables the com-mander’s operational risk management (ORM) decision-making. 1.2.  Scope and Application.  1.2.1.  Scope. OEHSAs are required for both home station and expeditionary operations. OEH expo-sure data should correlate with each Airman’s assignment history regardless of geographic location;therefore, data and information for both occupational and environmental exposures must be associatedwith the individual. Figure 1.1. reflects the connection between the health threat and the assessedexposure history captured in the LER. In addition, AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary SitePlanning, identifies requirements for producing In-Garrison Expeditionary Site Plans (IGESP) andExpeditionary Site Plans (ESP). The OEHSA provides valuable preventive medicine and exposureinput for those plans. AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20073Figure 1.1.  OEH Threats and Longitudinal Exposure Record 4AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20071.2.2.  Application. Agile Combat Support (ACS) and Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) creates,sustains, and protects air and space capabilities required to execute missions across the full spectrumof conflict. The Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) provides critical support through its preventivemedicine expertise and is a critical component in delivering ACS and ECS. 1.2.2.1.  OEHSAs will be executed at home station and during expeditionary operations to collectthe necessary data and determine potential and actual health risks. In support of the IGESP, ESP,and expeditionary operations, OEHSA execution is straightforward since the site assessment ispart of preliminary data collection and the “Open the Base” capability under the force module con-cept. Figure 1.2.  Force Module Basics 1.2.2.1.1.  For home station operations, transition to the OEHSA model will require realign-ment of existing OEH data and exposure information, and reassessment of potential healththreats (e.g., potential community-related exposures) not captured or assessed by the basemedical treatment facility (MTF). Current occupational health (OH) exposure data is generallyrobust at established bases; however, environmental health data is not completely integratedinto the OEH surveillance program and health risk assessment decision-making process. Thesame tactics and procedures used during traditional home station OH surveillance (e.g., fieldscreening and compliance sampling) will apply to environmental or community health threats.The workplace, as defined by AFI 48-145, now requires categorization to include OEH threatsversus the categorization of only OH hazards. 1.2.2.2.  In addition to AFI 48-145 and AFMAN 48-146 setting the foundation for OEHSAs, theAmerican Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) E 2318-03, Standard Guide for Environmen-tal Health Site Assessment Process for Military Deployments, describes the scientific methodol-ogy for conducting environmental health site assessments (EHSA). The integration of OHexposures completes this methodology for the AFMS and addresses a wide range of health threatsthat affect mission capability and personnel operating at sites and installations. Table 2.1. providesa comparison of steps between this AFMAN and the ASTM standard. 1.2.2.3.  OEHSAs are updated as new information becomes available, especially after militaryrotations or missions change at a site. After the initial assessment is completed, routine and spe-cialized assessment activities will be started in accordance with AFI 48-145. Routine and special-AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20075ized assessments continue to include environmental or community health threats to ensure risksare assessed across the full spectrum of health threats. 1.2.2.4.  Numerous information-related resources are required to plan and execute OEHSAs.Links to organizations and websites referenced in this document can be accessed via the Bioenvi-ronmental Engineering, “Dash Board”, which will be maintained through the AFMS KnowledgeExchange. 1.3.  Roles.  1.3.1.  Bioenvironmental engineering (BE) will lead OEHSA execution with assistance from medicalfunctional subject matter experts (SME) (e.g., public health and flight medicine). The degree of par-ticipation from SMEs is dependent on the organization of the MTF at home station or the medical unittype codes (UTC) deployed in the area of responsibility (AOR). Additional assistance will be requiredfrom other ACS and ECS SMEs (e.g., civil engineering readiness, environmental officers, securityforces). 1.3.1.1.  In the current force module construct, the Medical Global Reach Laydown UTC(FFGRL) may be the first to arrive at the bed down location and has the capability to assess OEHconditions. The FFGRL initiates the OEHSA and provides input to commanders to enable deci-sions on site selections (reference the FFGRL CONOPS, Mission Capability (MISCAP) state-ment, and allowance standard (AS) for further information). BE personnel need to ensurecommanders understand the nature of this OEH data for decision making (i.e., use of direct read-ing instruments to accomplish the assessment and related limitations (e.g., sensitivity, specificity,accuracy). 1.3.1.2.  The Prevention and Aerospace Medicine UTCs (FFPM1/2/3) will deploy and be capableof interpreting the FFGRL collected data and continue to collect data in order to complete theOEHSA. If FFPM arrives at a location without a FFGRL present prior to arrival, then the FFPM isresponsible for initiating the OEHSA. FFPM equipment is more sophisticated and has the capabil-ity to identify and quantify OEH threats at lower concentration thresholds (reference the FFPMCONOPS or MISCAP statement and AS for further information). In addition, the FFPMs rely onreach back laboratories (i.e., United States Army Center for Health Promotion and PreventiveMedicine (USACHPPM)-Europe or Air Force Institute for Operational Health) to better quantifypotential exposures. 1.3.1.3.  BE is generally organized within the MTF as either a flight or element under an Aero-space Medicine squadron or flight, respectively. This alignment facilitates OEHSA execution andintegration of occupational and environmental exposures into the OEH program in accordancewith AFI 48-145. 1.3.2.  The AF Institute for Operational Health provides reach back expertise on OEHSA processes. 6AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007Chapter 2  OEHSA STRUCTURE 2.1.  Structure. Table 2.1. links the OEHSA process (fourth column) with the ORM steps, the AFMSHRA procedure (to include health risk management as detailed in AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assess-ment) and the process identified in ASTM E 2318-03. Chapter 3 articulates the details of each step in theOEHSA process. These steps, although listed sequentially, may be executed in different orders accordingto the tactical situation at the site. Table 2.1.  Steps. ORM Identify Hazard Step 1 Identify Hazard Step 1 Assess Risks Step 2 Assess Risks Step 2 Assess Risk Step 2 Analyze Risk Controls Step 3 Make Control Decisions Step 4 Implement Risk Controls Step 5 Supervise and Review Step 6 HRA ASTM OEHSA Predeployment/Baseline Identify Health Threats / Hazards Predeployment Activities Identify Health Threats / Risks Site Reconnaissance / Interviews Activities (Paragraph 3.2.) Site Identification/ Sectoring (Paragraph 3.3.) Identify / Analyze Health Threats / Risks NA Site Reconnaissance (Paragraph 3.4.) Analyze Health Threats / Risks Analyze Health Threats / Risks Identify Engineering / Administrative Controls and Protective Equipment Make Health Control Decisions Conceptual Site Model Conceptual Site Model (Paragraph 3.5.) Sampling NA NA Initial/Specialized Surveillance (Paragraph 3.6. / 3.7.) Initial/Specialized Surveillance (Paragraph 3.6. / 3.7.) NA Implement Health Risk Controls Review Reassessment (Paragraph 3.8.) Supervise and Review Review Reassessment (Paragraph 3.8.) AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20072.2.  Structure Elements  72.2.1.  Workplace. A workplace’s boundaries are determined by the missions or operations to be exe-cuted and possibly by potential health threats which may exist. The workplace is equivalent to an areaof concern (AOC) (the term used in previous EHSA guidance and the Global Expeditionary MedicineSystem). Figure 2.1. represents the relationship. The AOC can be defined as a large area (e.g., area ofoperations, base, or site) or subdivided into smaller “sectors” where specific operational tasks (i.e.,processes) are performed. The workplace may include other areas of the base not traditionally consid-ered as a part of the site (e.g., home station base housing). Additionally, potential exposures may orig-inate on base and affect personnel/resources off base (e.g., dependent children exposed to volatileorganic compounds from the waste water treatment plant at an off base child care center) or limit mis-sion capability by restricting operational space. If the source of a health threat affecting personneloriginates outside the defined workplace (i.e., off-base smoke plume), then the source will be includedin the workplace assessment. Health threats from one workplace should also be evaluated as to howthey affect other workplaces. Figure 2.1.  OEHSA and AOC Relationship. 8AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20072.2.1.1.  In Figure 2.2., the fictitious base (Husky AFB) has numerous AOCs and the potentialthreats identified (in italics) stress the importance of assessing the OEH threat spectrum at homestation. Specific threats and potential pathways are provided as examples and listed in Table 2.2. Figure 2.2.  Husky AFB Site Assessment Model AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20079Table 2.2.  Husky AFB Site Assessment Data Threat AOC Base Housing (Off) Base Housing (On) Base Housing (On) Wing HQ Wing HQ Wing HQ Community Center Training Complex Husky AFB Toxic Industrial Material (Incinerator) Toxic Industrial Material (Local Industry) Toxic Industrial Material (Restoration Site) Noise (Aircraft) Nonionizing Radiation (Radar) Toxic Industrial Material (Jet Engine Emissions) Toxic Industrial Material (Corrosion Control) Toxic Industrial Material (Jet Engine Emissions) Noise (Aircraft) Toxic Industrial Material (Dump Site) Toxic Industrial Materials (Industrial Activities) Pathway Air (Inhalation) Air (Inhalation) Soil (Contact) Air Air Air (Inhalation) Air (Inhalation) Air (Inhalation) Air Soil (Contact) Air (Inhalation) Soil (Contact) Water (Ingestion) Noise (Aircraft) Air Vectors (Reservoir) Water (Contact) NOTE: These AOCs are not all inclusive and do not include specific processes performed in the vehiclemaintenance or corrosion control facility--these processes may become an AOC based on the threats iden-tified. 2.2.1.2.  In Figure 2.3., numerous AOCs exist in the deployed setting. The potential threats iden-tified in the figure and Table 2.3. are the same types provided in Figure 2.2. The OEHSAapproach does not differ; however, the determination of AOCs will be based on the threats thatexist at the site. 10AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007Figure 2.3.  Camp Falcon Site Assessment Model Table 2.3.  Camp Falcon Site Assessment Data AOC Threat Tent City Tent City Tent City Tent City Tent City Camp Falcon Camp Falcon Toxic Industrial Material (Local Industry) Toxic Industrial Material (Burn Pit) Noise Radiation Toxic Industrial Material (Barrel Dump) Sand Unknown Pathway Air (Inhalation) Air (Inhalation) Air Air Air (Inhalation) Soil (Contact) Air (Inhalation) Water (Contact) NOTE: These AOCs are not inclusive and do not include specific processes performed as a part ECS.These processes will become AOCs based on the threats identified. 2.2.2.  Similar Exposure Groups. Typically similar exposure groups (SEGs) (as referenced in AFMAN48-146) will either be an AOC or located within the AOC. Examples of SEGs, using Figure 2.2., fol-low: 11AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007Table 2.4.  Husky AFB SEGs AOC Base Housing (Off) Base Housing (On) Base Housing (On) Wing Wing Community Center Woodward AFB Threat Toxic Industrial Material (Incinerator) Toxic Industrial Material (Local Industry) Toxic Industrial Material (Restoration Site) Noise (Aircraft) Nonionizing Radiation (Radar) Toxic Industrial Material (Corrosion Control) Toxic Industrial Materials (Industrial Activities around Reservoir) SEG Base Housing Occupants Base Housing Occupants Base Housing Occupants Buildings 1-4 Occupants Building 4 Occupants Buildings 1-2 Occupants Base-wide Personnel NOTE: These SEGs are not all inclusive and do not consider the industrial processes performed. Thespecific process identified will dictate what SEGs are required to enable accurate surveillance and medi-cal monitoring if applicable. 12AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007Chapter 3  OEHSA STEPS 3.1.  Overview. An OEHSA is executed as soon as operationally feasible and is dependent on whether thelocation is in a permissible or non-permissible environment. However, a preliminary assessment shouldbe made during the planning phase or prior to deployments to identify any unique resource requirements.Execution in a non-permissible environment will be dictated by the chain-of-command. Note: Differencesbetween home station and expeditionary settings are highlighted if differences exist. 3.2.  Predeployment and Baseline Activities. These activities are designed to collect and document per-tinent site information (potential hazards). The objective is to identify present and past external factorsthat could have adverse health effects on personnel. Information must identify operations (e.g., industrial,commercial, and institutional facilities) and commodities that currently pose health risks (to include ifdestroyed, damaged, released, or held hostage by the enemy). Data and information sources and typesinclude: Home Station Documentation (e.g., Installation Restoration Program) Intelligence Sources (Medical, Counterproliferation, Facilities, and Regional) Armed Forces Medical Intelligence Center (AFMIC) Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) National Ground Intelligence Center (NGIC) USACHPPM Medical Environmental Disease Intelligence and Countermeasure (MEDIC) CD Air Field Surveys Vulnerability Assessments (VA) Previous After Action Reports (AAR) Department of State (DOS) US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Department of Energy (DOE) 3.2.1.  Home Station Documentation. Established CONUS/OCONUS bases have substantial docu-mentation regarding OEH threats, hazards, and exposures in relation to weapon systems and baseoperations. This data is critical in determining potential exposures and forwarding to UTCs for use indeployed settings. 3.2.2.  Intelligence Sources. Health information can be found in various intelligence products. Severalintelligence agencies provide excellent, actionable information for an OEHSA (primary use is prior todeployments and for establishing baselines). The use of intelligence can assist in identifying uniquethreats to the deployed area. In addition, intelligence updates should be requested on a periodic basisto determine whether the threats have decreased, increased, or remained the same. If specific intelli-gence is not available, then BE should consult the base or local intelligence officer and submit a"Request for Information" (i.e., input into the Community On Line Intelligence System for End UsersAFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 200713and Managers (COLISEUM)). Allow sufficient time for this system to work (e.g., 2-3 weeks). Do notlimit the request to a specific agency since this may reduce opportunities for broader information tomeet operational health requirements. Also, request the proper classification level for your intelli-gence needs. 3.2.2.1.  Medical Intelligence. DIA provides medical intelligence through AFMIC. AFMIC pro-duces finished, all-source, medical intelligence in support of the Department of Defense and itscomponents, national policy officials, and other federal agencies. AFMIC assesses health risksand medical capabilities of foreign countries. Assessments, forecasts, and databases are preparedon and are broken down into four areas of responsibility: 1) infectious disease and environmentalhealth; 2) epidemiology; 3) medical capabilities (global health systems and medical infrastruc-ture); and 4) foreign life science technology. Specific products to assist include an EnvironmentalHealth Risk Assessment, Infectious Disease Risk Assessment, and Industrial Facility Health RiskAssessment. AFMIC provides current medical intelligence focusing on environmental risks thatcan degrade force health or effectiveness including: industrial toxic chemical/radiation accidents;environmental warfare/terrorism; and hazardous waste. AFMIC’s goal is to identify any potentialhazardous sources, describe the health implications of specific agents of concern, characterize therisks to potentially exposed personnel, and translate the human health risk into operational impact.The Epidemiology section provides current medical intelligence focusing on those infectious dis-eases that could degrade mission effectiveness of deployed forces. This section also assesses: 1)the impact of worldwide infectious diseases/trends on national security and policy formulationand 2) endemic disease baselines to support arms control. In summary, the following informationnecessary to initiate an OEHSA includes: Historical and current property use of the site such as the type of agricultural, industrial, institu-tional, commercial and/or residential uses. Known hazardous waste sites. Known contamination and pollution in air, water and soil media. Typical climate conditions including normal and extreme temperatures, seasonal precipitation,and seasonal prevalent wind directions and velocities. Known property use including type of infrastructure such as existing buildings, transportation net-works, water treatment and distribution systems, wastewater collection and treatment systems,and known power generation and transmission systems. Maps, topographic and geological information relevant to the deployment area. The MEDIC CD, another AFMIC product, is an important intelligence product that forms the cor-nerstone of the deploying unit's intelligence assessment. It provides worldwide disease and envi-ronmental health risks hyperlinked to  the Joint Service-approved countermeasurerecommendations. Additionally, the MEDIC CD furnishes: 1) military and civilian health caredelivery capabilities; 2) operational information; and 3) disease vector ecology information. 3.2.2.2.  DIA. DIA also provides other pertinent operational intelligence to include counterprolif-eration, facilities, and regional information. DIA information provides chemical, biological, radio-logical, and nuclear-related current and emerging threat information and regional politics. Thisintelligence will provide a better understanding on the chemical and biological threats specific to14AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007countries of interest. Obtain this information from the installation intelligence officer or Office ofSpecial Investigation. 3.2.2.3.  NGIC. NGIC information will provide a better understanding of ground and operationalthreats. In addition, NGIC provides information on protective and defensive measures specific tocountries of interest. 3.2.2.4.  USACHPPM. USACHPPM has specific information for industrial bases, possibly neardeployed force locations, to include types of industry and hazard assessments. 3.2.3.  Airfield Surveys. These survey reports can provide orientation to the site location and helpidentify areas of concern, geographic features, hazards, and other pertinent information. 3.2.4.  VAs. AFI 10-245, AF Antiterrorism Standards, requires the collection of threat information andVAs at all installations at least annually. AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training, andAFI 48-144, Safe Drinking Water Surveillance Program, directs BE to conduct toxic industrial chem-ical/toxic industrial material and water VAs. These assessments collect valuable information regard-ing health threats and complement the HRA process. Ensure VA data and information are integratedinto the OEHSA, as applicable. 3.2.5.  Previous AARs. AARs can identify issues with a location and lessons learned during pastdeployments. These reports provide information regarding industry types and problems identified. Ina sustained operation, it gives the deploying unit continuity on past practices, issues, and problems. 3.2.6.  DOS. DOS is responsible for US diplomats abroad. Additionally, the DOS provides advisoriesto US travelers abroad. This may be useful information for OCONUS locations, in particular, regard-ing contact information for embassies and consulates. Embassies and consulates can provide localinformation that may be useful to units, such as: exchange rate policies; medical capabilities; hostnation sources; state and local agencies; foreign intelligence threats; local threats; etc. Since eachembassy has a military attachè, it is important to establish contact and derive current intelligence fromthis source. Additionally, the embassy may be the conduit by which units expedite requests to the hostnation. The above contact may be facilitated through an intelligence officer. 3.2.7.  US EPA Industry Information. EPA has compiled information regarding major industries andthe typical chemicals used, materials produced as waste, and most common emissions. Other coun-tries (e.g., European Union members, Japan, etc.) provide similar industry information and can beused for overseas bases and deployed locations if available. 3.2.8.  DOE. DOE has developed extensive information regarding radiological contaminated areas toinclude overseas. 3.3.  Site Identification and Sectoring. This step defines the overarching boundaries the OEHSA cov-ers, starting with the area of responsibility (AOR), area of operations (AO), missions, and includes per-sonnel and equipment executing those missions. Within this step, delineation and segregation ofworkplaces takes place. Similar mission activities are associated to each other as well as with geographi-cal proximity. At a later point, SEGs may be determined based on proximity of activity or similarity oftasks. For home station, delineation of the AO (i.e., the base) is complete and association of processes intoworkplaces is an administrative exercise. Sectoring in accordance with counter-chemical, biological,radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive zones needs to be completed--contact Civil EngineerReadiness for the current grid and further guidance. This is the initial grid breakout for sampling and anal-ysis and may be sufficient pending potential threat identification. AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007153.4.  Site Reconnaissance. Validation of information collected during the predeployment and baselinestep is required--the optimal validation method is visual observation around the perimeter and through thecamp or base. Interviews with military, host nation, and local personnel may also reveal important infor-mation. Data and information collected needs to clearly define potential and actual threats or hazards (ref-erence ASTM E 2318-03, chapter 7, for specific guidance). Visual clues also help identify potentialhazards within workplaces (e.g., industries in the area, stained soils, debris piles, lagoons, pits, ponds,unnatural topography, stressed vegetation, sick animals, drums, local resident information, etc.). Potentialhazardous facilities (e.g., industrial, manufacturing, waste reclamation and disposal, medical facilities)within a twenty-mile radius of the site should be considered in the vulnerability analysis. Consider agreater radius for extremely hazardous operations (e.g., weapons storage facilities and nuclear powerplants). 3.5.  Conceptual Site Model (CSM). The CSM, as described in ASTM E 2318-03, articulates the healththreats and exposure pathways and begins when data or information is gathered during predeploymentand baseline activities. Routine (i.e., initial screening) and specialized assessments provide the qualitativeand quantitative data required to assess the health risks and complete the CSMs. Site information must beevaluated to determine the type and degree of risk associated with the identified threats. As described inAFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment, a completed exposure pathway must exist for a threat or hazardto be a risk. As a part of this step, the process described in AFMAN 48-146 is used to recognize potentialexposure routes to personnel in contaminated environments. NOTE: Reference AFMOA/SGPB Field Manual, Bioenvironmental Engineering OEHSA, to assist withdeveloping sampling strategies and collecting OEH data to complete both initial and specialized assess-ments. 3.6.  Initial (Routine) Assessment. The initial surveillance, or screening, is to detect or identify ambientthreats or hazards that pose potential health risks. This screening covers the ambient environment. BE willperform sampling and analysis for contaminants of concern (COC) and potential hazards using equipmentthat is portable and reliable for field screening at levels determined to be "short-term safe" for populationsat risk. Analyses must be quick, accurate and provide suitable data for decision-making. If COCs are iden-tified, additional sampling through specialized assessment may be required to better quantify the COC(s)and assess the health risk. If initial screening adequately quantifies or qualifies the COC(s), no furtherassessment is required for that set of COCs. 3.6.1.  Air and Soil Sampling. This occupational and environmental sampling is critical to assist withbed down decisions in the expeditionary setting. Air and soil sampling will also be the focus at estab-lished bases in completing the OEHSA and determining OEH risks in the workplace. Ensure physicalhazards (e.g., noise, radiation, heat stress) generated from industrial-type operations, or due to geo-graphic location, are immediately assessed to determine potential and actual pathways and exposures.These threats exist immediately upon bed down and increase in scope as sites develop and transitioninto sustained operations. 3.6.2.  Surface Water Sampling. Initial surface water sampling starts with sampling of waters locatedwithin the perimeter of the site or base. Sampling then proceeds to other surface waters, streams,ditches, etc. that personnel or equipment may come into contact with during operations. Surface watersampling should be conducted as environmental and weather conditions change or as the size of theAO changes. Another reason for sampling is that the surface water may be used as a drinking watersource. 16AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 20073.6.3.  Drinking Water Sampling. Drinking water quality will be evaluated on both the source waterand product water (i.e., after treatment). Bottled water plants will need to be sampled and inspected ifthe plant is not currently approved for use by the US Army Veterinary Command. Quality standardsfor potable water vary depending on force structure and duration of use. Identification of all drinkingwater sources should be documented and evaluated prior to use and at regular intervals throughout theoperation to ensure the hazard profiles have not changed. All water sources should be assessed priorto their use regardless of the source to determine if the water is potable or can be made potable bypurification. Data collected during initial assessment will be used to establish the long-term monitor-ing plan to maintain force health protection. In addition to the traditional sampling methods, fieldanalysis of the source water can be conducted to determine whether the source is treatable. Drinkingwater sampling conducted at established bases will continue as currently conducted. 3.6.4.  Hazardous Waste Sampling. Unknown hazardous materials or waste residues remaining fromindustrial operations or other operations may exist at the site. If wastes creating potential health risksare encountered, collect samples and analyze or send to the laboratory for further analysis. 3.7.  Specialized Assessment. This sampling is conducted if data or information collected from prede-ployment and baseline activities, or initial screening, has identified a COC or potential OEH risk. Special-ized assessments may also be conducted when health effects are suspected due to an OEH threat.Specialized assessments are conducted when initial screening detects or identifies a COC, screening isinconclusive, or another trigger (e.g., exposure-induced illness) drives BE to perform additional sampling. 3.8.  Reassessment. Reassessment of health risks is the process of validating that previous data andassumptions remain true or have changed. If changed, the data may need to be recollected and assessed.The reassessments should be done intermittently and whenever changes have occurred in the AOC. A partof the reassessment includes communication. Communication of health risks to commanders, missionplanners, functional work centers, and affected personnel is critical to timely intervention and mitigationas appropriate. The communication should be done frequently and after each reassessment. A proactiveapproach to provide the right information at the right time is critical to the mission and operator perfor-mance. JAMES G. ROUDEBUSH,  Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS Surgeon General AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 200717Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References Presidential Review Directive 5, Planning for Health Preparedness and Readjustment of the Military, Vet-erans, and Their Families After Future Deployments, August 1998 Department of Defense Directive 6490.2, Comprehensive Medical Surveillance, October 2004 Department of Defense Instruction 6490.3, Implementation And Application Of Joint Medical Surveil-lance For Deployments, 1997 Joints Chief of Staff Memorandum MCM-0006-02, Updated Procedures for Deployment and Health Sur-veillance And Readiness, February 2002 AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism Standards, 21 June 2002 AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, 9 March 2004 AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training, 2 December 2004 AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994 AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or Mili-tary Significance, 1 March 2005 AFI 48-144, Safe Drinking Water Surveillance Program, 19 March 2003 AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program, 1 April 1999 AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000 American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), Standard Guide for Environmental Health SiteAssessment Process for Military Deployments Designation, E 2318 – 03 Abbreviations and Acronyms ACS—Agile Combat SupportAF—Air ForceAFI—Air Force InstructionAFMAN—Air Force ManualAFMIC—Armed Forces Medical Intelligence CenterAFMS—Air Force Medical ServiceAFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations AgencyAFRMIS—Air Force Records Information Management SystemAOC—Area of ConcernAOR—Area of ResponsibilityAO—Area of OperationsAS—Allowance Standard18AFMAN48-154   28 MARCH 2007ASTM—American Society for Testing and MaterialsBE—Bioenvironmental EngineeringCOC—Constituent of ConcernCOLISEUM—Community On Line Intelligence System for End Users and ManagersCSM—Conceptual Site ModelDIA—Defense Intelligence AgencyDOD—Department of DefenseDOS—Department of StateECS—Expeditionary Combat SupportEHSA—Environmental Health Site AssessmentESP—Expeditionary Site PlanHRA—Health Risk AssessmentIGESP—In-Garrison Expeditionary Site PlansLER—Longitudinal Exposure RecordMEDIC—Medical Environmental Disease Intelligence and CountermeasureMGRL—Medical Global Reach Laydown TeamMISCAP—Mission Capability (Statement)MTF—Medical Treatment FacilityNGIC—National Ground Intelligence CenterOEH—Occupational and Environmental HealthOEHED—Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure DataOEHSA—Occupational and Environmental Health Site AssessmentsOH—Occupational HealthORM—Operational Risk ManagementPAM—Prevention and Aerospace Medicine TeamRDS—Records Disposition ScheduleSEG—Similar Exposure GroupSME—Subject Matter ExpertUSACHPPM—United States Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive MedicineUSEPA—US Environmental Protection AgencyUTC—Unit Type CodeVA—Vulnerability Assessment