BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 4. Scenario Requirements.  Each LCOM study addresses all applicable operational environments. Eachscenario should state the modeling features to be used in the study and contain the following information:4.1. Study Objective:4.1.1. Define purpose and scope of study.4.1.2. Identify locations to be used for failure data collections and the associated time period cov-ered.4.1.3. Identify locations for field measurements and data validation if required.4.2. Organization Alignment:4.2.1. State the organization levels being studied.4.2.2. Identify the deployment environment being modeled, primary aircraft assigned (PAA), andlevel of maintenance at each deployment location.4.2.3. Identify the organizational structure appropriate to the studied units and include organiza-tion chart. List the organization structure codes (OSC) and provide the functional account code(FAC) and manpower determinant for each work center.4.3. Manpower Data:4.3.1. Identify the man-hour availability factors (MAF) to be used.4.3.2. Use the appropriate MAJCOM indirect factors to determine maximum utilization factors.4.3.3. Provide policies that will be used for the employment of alert-dedicated personnel.4.3.4. Provide manpower shift policies for each operational environment.4.4. Supply Data:4.4.1. Provide not-mission-capable supply (NMCS) rates for applicable to each operational envi-ronment.4.4.2. Identify the supply concept applicable to each operational environment.4.5. Support Equipment and Facilities.  Identify special equipment available at home or atdeployed location that is applicable to model.4.6. Maintenance RRequirements:4.6.1. Maintenance policies and concepts that will be modeled4.6.2. Remote versus home station maintenance modeling criteria.4.6.3. Launch and recovery modeling criteria.4.6.4. Whether cannibalization will be modeled.4.7. Operations Requirements:4.7.1. Mission type and percent.4.7.2. Substitution rules for use of alternate configurations.24.7.3. Modeling criteria for ground alert. Provide alert data showing the number of aircraft onalert by location, replacement policy (replace when launched, or same aircraft returns to alert),duration of alert cycle, and disposition of aircraft at end of alert cycle.4.7.4. Weather modeling criteria.4.7.5. Percentage of air aborts by mission.4.7.6. Policies for modeling ground or air spare aircraft.4.7.7. Criteria for modeling complimentary missions and mission legs with restricted timeframes.4.7.8. Criteria for modeling mass launches.4.7.9. Information for each mission type or leg including:4.7.9.1. Aircraft type.4.7.9.2. Operational environment (for example, sustained, surge or training).4.7.9.3. PAA size being modeled.4.7.9.4. Include source document for sortie rate and average duration.4.7.9.5. Attrition policy.4.7.9.6. Mission name.4.7.9.7. Mission priority.4.7.9.8. Percent of total sorties, by mission type.4.7.9.9. Mean sortie length and variation.4.7.9.10. Ratio of day to night missions.4.7.9.11. Substitute missions.4.7.9.12. Flight size (maximum and minimum).4.7.9.13. Mission cancel time. Give the length and type of delay that will be allowed beforethe mission will be canceled.4.7.9.14. Modeling criteria for mission-peculiar equipment.4.7.9.15. Initial external aircraft configuration.4.7.9.16. Probability and quantity of weapon expenditure.4.7.9.17. Ending configuration.4.7.9.18. Additional data. For example, when data is available on areas such as aircraft battledamage and chemical environmental impact, consider these areas for modeling.Section C—Data Base Development5. Preliminary Maintenance Data Analysis.  Before starting work measurement activities supportingan LCOM study, do the following:35.1. Compile historical or logistics support analysis (LSA) maintenance data for use with the LCOMdata preparation subsystem. Obtain at least six months of historical data from the units or locationsunder study.5.2. Perform LCOM data preparation subsystem runs to produce preliminary analysis reports. Theaudit and combination reports should provide information for conducting an LCOM work measure-ment.Section D—Simulation6. Use of Computer Programs. The simulation process used to validate manpower requirements con-sists of several computer programs. Use these programs to simulate resources such as parts, equipment,and manpower in support of an approved flying schedule. Once the scenario has been approved, obtainhistorical failure data, supply data, validated task times, and crew sizes. This data and scenario parametersmake up the LCOM data base. The computer programs use this data base and the approved flying sched-ule to form an LCOM simulation model. The LCOM users guide provides all documentation required toperform the process.7. Processing. The simulation process begins with available aircraft in the ready pool. When a mission isscheduled, the appropriate number of aircraft are selected to begin the presortie tasks. Once these tasks arecomplete, the aircraft are available for the mission. When the mission is completed, the model looks foraircraft system failures. These failures are based on the historical data incorporated in the data base. If anyfailures exist, the appropriate resources (personnel, parts, equipment) are selected and the repair activitiesbegin. Once all repairs are completed and the normal postsortie processing is done, the aircraft arereturned to the ready pool. At that time, they become available for selection to process toward a missionor an activity such as a phase inspection.8. Reports. The LCOM system provides a number of user-requested reports. These reports provideinformation necessary to evaluate manpower requirements. These requirements are based primarily on theamount of resources used during the simulation process.9. Preparation of a FIN-REP.  Final reports will be prepared and formatted based on the requirementsof the approving MAJCOM M & O and LG communities.CHARLES R. HEFLEBOWER,  Brig General, USAFDirector, Programs and Evaluation4GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMSAttachment 1ReferencesNoneAbbreviations and AcronymsFAC—Functional Account CodeLCOM—Logistics Composite ModelM&O—Manpower and OrganizationMAF—Man-hour Availability FactorNMCS—Not-Mission-Capable SupplyOSC—Organization Structure CodePAA—Primary Aircraft AssignedTermsAll terms are located in AFMAN 38-208, volume 2, to preclude duplication.5