BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 31 28 JANUARY 2015  AIR FORCE INSPECTON AGENCY (AFIA)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available on the e-publishing website: www.e-publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   SAF/IG  Supersedes:   AFMD 31, 24 October 2012 Certified by: SAF/IG  (Lt Gen Gregory A. Biscone) Pages: 3   This directive outlines the core  responsibilities of the Air Force  Inspection Agency (AFIA), a field operating agency (FOA) that serves as the action arm for the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) Inspection System.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Route  recommended  changes  and  questions  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  using  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been updated to reflect the agency’s reorganization which realigned existing resources to better support its current and expanding mission. 1.  Mission.  AFIA  provides  independent  inspection,  evaluation,  oversight  and  analysis  to advance continuous improvement of mission effectiveness at all AF levels.  AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, outlines agency responsibilities to evaluate AF activities and policies, identify deficiencies, and recommend improvement areas for peacetime and wartime missions. 2.  Organizational  and  Command  Structure.  The  agency  reports  directly  to  the  SECAF Office  of  the  Inspector  General  (SAF/IG)  and  is  comprised  of  six  directorates:  Enterprise Support,  Oversight  and  Evaluation,  Inspections,  Medical  Operations,  Mission  Support  and Nuclear Inspections. 3.  Responsibilities.  AFIA: 3.1.  Integrates medical inspectors with MAJCOM IG teams to conduct UEIs; as required.   2  AFMD31  28 JANUARY 2015 3.2.  Collaborates  with  the  Air  Force  Surgeon  General’s  office,  the  Air  Force  Medical Operations  Agency,  and  the  major  commands  (MAJCOM)  on  policies  and  procedures pertaining to UEIs. 3.3.  Inspects  radioactive  material  permits  issued  to  authorized  AF  users  under  the  master materials license granted by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 3.4.  Provides  oversight  of  MAJCOM-conducted  nuclear  surety  inspections  (NSI),  select limited and initial NSIs to assess MAJCOM inspector general (IG) performance and provide the  Inspector  General  (TIG),  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  (CSAF),  and  SECAF  an independent perspective of the safety, security, and reliability of units and nuclear weapons. 3.5.  Integrates a core team of nuclear inspectors with MAJCOM IG teams to conduct NSIs. 3.6.  Provides standardized basic, nuclear, and management inspection training for Air Force inspectors and augmentees. 3.7.  Observes  the  conduct  and  performance  of  MAJCOM  IG  teams  during  all  inspection types and provides feedback to IGs and SAF/IG on their effectiveness to improve processes across the Air Force Inspection System. 3.8.  Independently conducts unit effectiveness, management, statutory, and special interest item inspections for AF-level FOAs and direct reporting units (DRU). 3.9.  When directed, evaluates and reports on high-impact, high-visibility programs that are of significant interest to SECAF, CSAF or SAF/IG. 3.10.  Serves as the AF gatekeeper to manage the centralized AF inspection schedule which includes all inspection activities by external, non-AF agencies. 3.11.  Consolidates  and  reports  statutory  information  to  Congress  and  the  Department  of Defense (DoD). 3.12.  Provides  subject-matter  expertise  related  to  training,  inspections  and  other  activities directed or supported by CJCSI 3263.05, Nuclear Weapons Technical Inspections. 3.13.  Plans and conducts management inspections for AF units above wing level to report on their discipline, efficiency, and effectiveness. 3.14.  Conducts AF-wide trend analysis for IG inspections to identify systemic deficiencies across the AF, medical services, and the nuclear enterprise. 3.15.  Manages  The  Inspector  General  Inspection  Reporting  System,  a  collection  of information  technology  systems  and  capabilities  that  provide  inspection  scheduling, planning, execution, and post-inspection analysis and reporting. 3.16.  Prepares the TIG Brief newsletter to ensure IGs, commanders, and Airmen have access to relevant information for the entire spectrum of IG activities. 3.17.  Maintains  an  appropriate  staff  to  provide  legal  reviews/recommendations  to  the command  team,  computer,  and  communications  support  and  otherwise  manage,  plan, program, budget, and execute resources and activities associated with the agency’s command code. AFMD31  28 JANUARY 2015   3  4.  Direct Communication.  Communicates with HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, numbered air forces, FOAs,  DRUs,  the  Air  National  Guard,  and  AF  Reserve,  AF  units  and  installations,  sister services,  the  DoD,  and  other  government  agencies  on  matters  of  direct  interest  to  AFIA’s mission areas and responsibilities. 5.  Relationships  with  Other  Units  or  Agencies.  AFIA  may  coordinate  directly  with  other agencies to avoid duplication of effort, increase mission effectiveness and promote collaboration and mutual support of inspections, audits and training activities.  GREGORY A. BISCONE Lieutenant General, USAF The Inspector General 