BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 28 3 DECEMBER 2015 Special Management AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS AGENCY  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   HAF Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AFPAA/CL   Certified by: SAF/PA  (Brig Gen Kathleen A. Cook) Pages: 2   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication is new and must be completely reviewed.  1.  Mission.  The Air Force Public Affairs Agency (AFPAA) prepares all assigned active forces for Air Force, joint, or combined operations in the roles of force support and sustainment, power projection,  and  military  operations  other  than  war.    As  the  active  Air  Force  Combat  Camera (COMCAM)  force  provider,  AFPAA  provides  aerial  and  ground  COMCAM  capability  to document  operations  and  support  activities  to  supported  commanders.    AFPAA  provides  Air Force  video  production  capability  supporting  senior  leader  strategic  themes  and  messages.    It also accomplishes Air Force level public affairs operations supporting the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force for Public Affairs (SAF/PA) and Air Force senior leadership.  This organization is a field operating agency of SAF/PA. 2.  Command.  The Director, AFPAA: 2.1.  Reports  directly  to  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Public  Affairs (SAF/PA). 2.2.  Commands personnel assigned to AFPAA; organizes, trains and equips the active Force COMCAM  force  with  appropriate  resources  and  infrastructure  to  accomplish  the  AFPAA mission as contained herein (or as directed) and to deploy in support of Air Force, joint and combined operations on the ground in combat and special operations environments. 2 AFMD28  3 DECEMBER 2015 3.  Responsibilities.  The Director, AFPAA: 3.1.  Prepares and employs active Air Force COMCAM forces to provide aerial and ground  documentation of missions across the full spectrum of military operations. 3.2.  Employs  Air  Force  production  capability  to  support  the  SECAF,  CSAF  and  other  Air Force  senior  leaders  with  video  productions  supporting  Air  Force  strategic  themes  and messages, and MAJCOMs with capability not available within their commands. 3.3.  Provides SECAF, CSAF, and other Air Force senior leaders direct messaging support to internal and external audiences through: 3.3.1.  Monitoring and direction of Air Force strategic themes and messages on Air Force public affairs products and services provided by the Defense Media Activity;  3.3.2.  Air Force imagery acquisition for distribution/release and records management. 3.4.  Protects and manages all Air Force symbols and marks through the Air Force trademark and  licensing  program,  by  negotiating  the  authorized  use  of  Air  Force  symbols  and  marks with commercial entities.     3.5.  Executes  Air  Force  level  public  affairs  missions  supporting  SAF/PA  and  the  public affairs functional community including: 3.5.1.  Air Force public website operations and management; 3.5.2.  Air Force visual information management; 3.5.3.  Air  Force  public  affairs  functional  training,  not  included  in  pipeline  training  and development  of  Air  Force  career  development  courses  for  the  public  affairs  functional community; 3.5.4.  Centralized  Air  Force  band  arrangements  and  compositions  and  music  licensing support; and 3.5.5.  Other missions as assigned by the Director, SAF/PA. 4.  Direct Communication.  Communicates with HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, Numbered Air Forces, FOAs, DRUs, the Air National Guard, AF units and installations, sister services, the Department of  Defense,  and  other  government  agencies  on  matters  of  direct  interest  to  AFPAA’s  mission areas and responsibilities. 5.  Relationships  with  Other  Units  or  Agencies.  AFPAA  may  coordinate  directly  with  other agencies to avoid duplication of effort, increase mission effectiveness, and promote collaboration and mutual support of public affairs activities.  KATHLEEN A. COOK, Brig Gen, USAF Director, Air Force Public Affairs 