BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 1 5 AUGUST 2016  HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE (HAF)     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/AAII  Supersedes:  AFMD 1, 8 April, 2011  Certified by: SAF/AA  (Ms. Patricia Zarodkiewicz) Pages: 7 This  directive states the  mission, command structure, and responsibilities  of the Department of the Air Force Headquarters.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  using  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication; route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are kept in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  revised  to  reflect  Headquarters  Air  Force  Mission  Directives  (HAF MDs) as the publications that delegate authority/assign responsibility  from  the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) to Headquarters Air Force two-letter offices.  A list of all HAF MDs has been added to this publication as Attachment 1. 1.  Mission.  Headquarters Air Force assists the Secretary of the Air Force  and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) in conducting the affairs of the Department of the Air Force to fulfill the Department’s functions, duties, and responsibilities set forth in Title 10 United States Code (10 U.S.C.) and relevant Department of Defense (DoD) issuances.  The HAF develops policies, plans, and programs, establishes requirements, and provides resources to support the Air Force’s mission to defend the United States and protect its interests through the use of air and space and cyberspace power.  The HAF is an integrated staff comprised of the offices of the Office of the 2 AFMD1  5 AUGUST 2016 Secretary of the Air Force (Secretariat) and the Air Staff.  Generally, there will be no duplication of functions within HAF organizations, however the Secretariat will retain oversight and control of  matters  within  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility.    Those  organizations  having complementary responsibilities will avoid redundancy to the maximum extent possible. 2.  Command.  The  SecAF  is  the  head  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.    The  SecAF  is responsible  for,  and  has  the  authority  necessary  to  conduct  all  affairs  of  the  Department  of  the Air Force.  The chain of command for purposes other than operational control of forces assigned to  combatant  commands  runs  from  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (SecDef)  to  the  SecAF.    All  Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs) report to the CSAF. 2.1.  The  SecAF  exercises  authority  primarily  through  civilian  officials  appointed  by  the President  and  confirmed  by  the  Senate,  specifically,  the  Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (USecAF), four Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force, the General Counsel of the Air Force, as  well  as  the  CSAF.    The  SecAF  utilizes  the  assistance  of  the  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff personnel  in  carrying  out  these  responsibilities,  but  retains  immediate  supervision  of activities  that  involve  vital  relationships  with  Congress,  the  SecDef,  other  governmental officials, and the public. 2.2.  The CSAF performs his or her duties subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SecAF, presides over the Air Staff, and is the principal military advisor to the SecAF on Air Force activities.  The CSAF also serves as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) and the Armed Forces Policy Council. In the JCS capacity, the CSAF is one of the military advisors to the President, the National Security Council, and the SecDef.  The CSAF is not subject to the authority, direction and control of the SecAF when he or she is acting solely in the  capacity  as  a  member  of  the  JCS;  however,  the  CSAF  shall  keep  the  SecAF  fully informed  of  significant  military  operations  affecting  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  the Department of the Air Force to the extent permitted by the authority, direction, and control of the SecDef. 3.  Responsibilities.  The SecAF is responsible for the entire Department of the Air Force affairs and for fulfilling the Department of the Air Force’s functions, duties and responsibilities set forth in Subtitle D of 10 U.S.C. and the current version of Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and its Major Components. 3.1.  The SecAF is responsible for, and, unless limited by lawful authority, has the authority necessary to conduct all affairs of the Department of the Air Force, including the following: 3.1.1.  Recruiting; 3.1.2.  Organizing; 3.1.3.  Supplying; 3.1.4.  Equipping (including research and development); 3.1.5.  Training; 3.1.6.  Servicing; 3.1.7.  Mobilizing; 3.1.8.  Demobilizing; AFMD1  5 AUGUST 2016 3 3.1.9.  Administering (including the morale and welfare of personnel); 3.1.10.  Maintaining; 3.1.11.  Construction, outfitting, and repairing of military equipment; and, 3.1.12.  Construction,  maintenance,  repair  and  accounting  of  buildings,  structures,  and utilities; the acquisition, management, accounting and disposal of real property or natural resources. 3.2.  The  SecAF  is  also  responsible  to  the  SecDef  for  the  following  activities  of  the Department of the Air Force: 3.2.1.  Operation and efficiency of the Department of the Air Force; 3.2.2.  Formulation  of  policies  and  programs  fully  consistent  with  national  security objectives and policy (established by the President and SecDef); 3.2.3.  Effective and timely implementation of policy, program, and budget decisions and instructions of the President or SecDef; 3.2.4.  Carrying out  the functions of the Department  of the Air Force so as to  fulfill the current and future operational requirements of the Combatant Commands; 3.2.5.  Effective cooperation  and coordination between the Department  of the Air  Force and  other  DoD  components  to  provide  for  more  effective,  efficient,  and  economical administration and to eliminate duplication; 3.2.6.  Presentation  and  justification  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force  positions  on plans, programs, and policies of the DoD; and, 3.2.7.  Effective supervision and control of Air Force intelligence activities. 3.3.  The SecAF is also  responsible for any other activities prescribed by law, the President or SecDef. 3.4.  The CSAF, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SecAF, is responsible for the following: 3.4.1.  Presiding over the Air Staff; 3.4.2.  Transmitting Air Staff plans and recommendations to the SecAF and advising the SecAF with regard to such plans and recommendations; 3.4.3.  Acting  as recommendations of the Air Staff; the  SecAF’s  agent in  carrying  out the  approved  plans  or 3.4.4.  Exercising  supervision,  consistent  with  the  authority  assigned  to  the  combatant commanders, over such members of the Air Force as the SecAF determines; 3.4.5.  Performing the duties prescribed for the CSAF under 10 U.S.C. Section 171 as a member of the Armed Forces Policy Council, as well as other duties prescribed by law; and, 3.4.6.  Performing  other  military  duties  as  assigned  to  the  CSAF  by  the  President,  the SecDef, or the SecAF. 4 AFMD1  5 AUGUST 2016 3.5.  The  CSAF  also  performs  duties  as  a  member  of  the  JCS  as  prescribed  by  10  U.S.C. Section 151. 3.5.1.  The CSAF shall inform the SecAF regarding military advice rendered by members of the JCS on matters affecting the Department of the Air Force, to the extent that such action does not impair the independence of the CSAF in his/her role as a member of the JCS. 3.5.2.  Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SecDef, the CSAF shall keep the  SecAF  fully  informed  of  significant  military  operations  affecting  the  duties  and responsibilities of the department of the Air Force. 4.  Organization.  The HAF consists of two major entities, created by 10 U.S. Code Part I. -- the Secretariat    and  the  Air  Staff.    The  SecAF  may  also  establish  other  organizational  entities  or offices  that  report  to  the  HAF  (e.g.,  Field  Operating  Agencies  (FOAs),  Direct  Reporting  Units (DRUs), etc.). 4.1.  The  Secretariat,  pursuant  to  10  U.S.C.  Section  8014and  8016,  is  composed  of  the following officials and offices: 4.1.1.  The USecAF; 4.1.2.  Four Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force; 4.1.3.  The General Counsel of the Air Force; 4.1.4.  The Inspector General of the Air Force; 4.1.5.  The Chief of Legislative Liaison; 4.1.6.  The Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee; and, 4.1.7.  Such other offices as may be established by law or as the SecAF may establish or designate. 4.2.  The  Secretariat,  pursuant  to  10  U.S.C.  Section  8014,  Subsections  (c)  and  (d)  has  sole responsibility for supporting the Department in the following functions: 4.2.1.  Acquisition; 4.2.2.  Auditing; 4.2.3.  Comptroller (including financial management); 4.2.4.  Information management; 4.2.5.  Inspector General; 4.2.6.  Legislative affairs; 4.2.7.  Public affairs; and, 4.2.8.  Research and development. 4.3.  As  prescribed  by  10  U.S.C.  Section  8032,  the  Air  Staff  is  responsible  for  providing professional assistance to the SecAF, the Secretariat, and the CSAF.  The Air Staff, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Section 8031, is composed of the following officials and offices: 4.3.1.  The Chief of Staff of the Air Force; AFMD1  5 AUGUST 2016 5 4.3.2.  The Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force; 4.3.3.  Deputy Chiefs of Staff and Assistant Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force, as prescribed by the SecAF, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8035 of Title 10; 4.3.4.  The Surgeon General of the Air Force; 4.3.5.  The Judge Advocate General of the Air Force; 4.3.6.  The Chief of the Air Force Reserve; and, 4.3.7.  Such other Air Staff offices as the SecAF may establish or designate. 4.4.  Under  the  authority,  direction,  and  control  of  the  SecAF  (by  law)  and  the  CSAF  (by policy), as well as the limitations set forth in paragraph 4.2., the Air Staff is responsible for: 4.4.1.  Preparing  for  the  employment  of  the  Air  Force  and  such  recruiting,  organizing, supplying,  equipping,  training,  servicing,  mobilizing,  demobilizing,  administering,  and maintaining  of  the  Air  Force  that  will  assist  in  the  execution  of  any  power,  duty,  or function of the SecAF or CSAF; 4.4.2.  Investigating and reporting on the efficiency of the Air Force and its preparation to support military operations by combatant commands; 4.4.3.  Preparing detailed instructions for the execution of approved plans and supervising the execution of those plans and instructions; 4.4.4.  Coordinating  the  actions  of  organizations  of  the  Air  Force  as  directed  by  the SecAF or the CSAF; and, 4.4.5.  Performing other duties, not  otherwise assigned by law, as may be prescribed by the SecAF (by law) or the CSAF (by policy). 4.5.  A  full  list  of  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff  organizations  and  their  Mission  Directives designators is at Attachment 1. 5.  Delegation  of  Authorities.  HAF  MDs  delegate  or  re-delegate  authority  and  assign responsibilities from the SecAF to two-letter offices and officials.  A "two-letter office" is an Air Force  organization,  the  mission  and  responsibilities  of  which  are  assigned  and  authorized directly by the SecAF and documented in a Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive.  The HAF officials  to  whom  authorities  are  delegated  or  re-delegated/responsibilities  are  assigned,  unless otherwise  restricted  by  law  or  directive,  may  re-delegate  authority/re-assign  responsibilities  to other  offices  or  officials.    Any  official  re-delegating  authority  may  further  restrict/limit  the authority.    Re-delegations  of  authority  are  ineffective  unless  in  writing.    AFMD  are  prepared IAW Headquarters Air Force Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibility. 6.  Succession  Order  for  the  Office  of  the  Secretary.  The succession order for the Office of the SECAF is established by Executive Order (E.O.) 12909,  Order of Succession of Officers to Act  as  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.    The  authority  provides  that  if  the  SECAF  dies,  resigns,  is absent, or is disabled, then the USecAF will serve as Acting SECAF.  If the USecAF is unable to assume the duties of the SecAF, then either an Assistant Secretary or the General Counsel of the Air Force, in the order fixed by their length of service as permanent appointees in such positions, will serve as Acting SecAF.  If the USecAF and none of the Assistant Secretaries or the General 6 AFMD1  5 AUGUST 2016 Counsel of the Air Force are able to serve as Acting SecAF, then the CSAF shall perform such duties.  The SecAF may determine those circumstances, if any, when his or her absence requires the assumption of duties as Acting SecAF in accordance with Executive Order 12909.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force AFMD1  5 AUGUST 2016 7 ATTACHMENT 1 HAF MISSION DIRECTIVES Table A1.1.  HAF MDs Name (and Acronym) of HAF Office HAF MD  Number Inspector General (SAF/IG) 1-2  Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US) 1-4  Chief of Staff (AF/CC) 1-6  Administrative Assistant (SAF/AA) 1-8  Auditor General (SAF/AG) 1-10  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (ASAF), Acquisition (SAF/AQ) 1-12  ASAF, Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) 1-14  General Counsel (SAF/GC) 1-16  Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) 1-17  Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (Space) (SAF/SP) 1-18  ASAF, Installations, Environment and Energy (SAF/IE) 1-19  Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, Management (SAF/MG) 1-20 1-22  Director of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) 1-24  ASAF, Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) 1-26  Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) 1-28  Director of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) 1-30  Director, Air Force Office of Small Business Programs (SAF/SB) 1-32  Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) 1-33  DCS, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) 1-34  Chief of  Chaplains  (AF/HC) 1-36  Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs (AF/HO) 1-38  DCS, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) 1-40  Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) 1-42  Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) 1-46  Chief of Safety (AF/SE) 1-48  Surgeon General (AF/SG) 1-50  Chief Scientist (AF/ST) 1-52  Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) 1-54  DCS, Operations (AF/A3) 1-56  DCS, Strategic Plans and Requirements (AF/A5/8) 1-58  Director, Studies, Analyses and Assessments (AF/A9) 1-60  DCS, Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration (AF/A10)   