 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 11 23 DECEMBER 2015 Mission Directive AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND (AFRC)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasabilllity restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/REXX  Supersedes:   AFMD11, 30 December 2005 Certified by: AF/RE (Lt Gen James F. Jackson) Pages: 2   The  directive  states  the  mission,  organization,  and  responsibilities  for  Air  Force  Reserve Command  (AFRC).    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  field  units  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained  in  accordance  with  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in accordance  with located  at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS) SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision reflects AFRC’s status as a major command (MAJCOM) and a reserve component of the United States Air Force (USAF) that organizes, trains and equips combat ready forces.  1.  Mission.  The mission of AFRC is to provide Citizen Airmen to defend the United States and to protect its interests through air, space and cyberspace power. This organization is a MAJCOM of the USAF. 2.  Command. 2.1.  The AFRC Commander: 2.1.1.  Is the Chief of Air Force Reserve. 2.1.2.  Commands  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command,  composed  of  three  numbered  Air Forces:      Fourth  Air  Force,  Tenth  Air  Force  and  Twenty-Second  Air  Force,  and  the  Air   2  AFMD11  23 DECEMBER 2015 Reserve  Personnel  Center  (ARPC),  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  Force  Generation Center, and the Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service. 2.2.  The Air Force Reserve is a reserve component of the Air Force IAW 10 USC § 10101.  AFRC must be assigned all forces of the Air Force Reserve in the continental United States IAW 10 USC § 10174 with the exception of special operations forces which are assigned to AFRC by service policy. 3.  Responsibilities.  The AFRC Commander: 3.1.  Organizes, trains, and equips combat-ready forces. 3.2.  Presents  combat  ready  forces  that  can  operate  as  seamless  members  of  the Expeditionary Air, Space and Cyber Force. 3.3.  Coordinates  and  maintains  liaison  with  HQ  USAF  and  other  Air  Force  MAJCOMs  to ensure reserve training standards and qualification levels meet mobilization requirements. 3.4.  Establishes  necessary  priorities  to  ensure  accelerated  training  programs  and  quotas  for reserve  individuals,  especially  in  areas  of  skill  shortages,  in  support  of  Air  Force requirements. 3.5.  Directs operation of Headquarters AFRC, the three numbered Air Forces and ARPC and pro- vides all required MAJCOM-level support for all AFRC units and individuals. 3.6.  Organizes  additional  units  to  include  integrating  with  Regular  Component  and  Air National Guard units, and trains personnel to achieve and maintain readiness as required by the AF. 3.7.  Maintains  overall  supervision  of  AFR  matters  supporting  AF  war  plans,  programming docu- ments, and mobilization actions. 3.8.  Ensures  that  AFRC  units  and  individuals  ordered  to  active  duty  during  a  call-up  or mobilization  are  provided  necessary  supervision, readiness  and administrative support from exist- ing resources. training, family 3.9.  Assists Regular Component forces by performing peacetime missions as an adjunct to, or corol- lary of, training, and assumes operations and missions assigned in whole or in part to the Reserve Component, and supports operations or missions performed by units that are part of active and classic associations. 3.10.  Exercises  administrative  control  (ADCON)  over  all  AFR  forces  under  his  command, except  for  forces  attached  to  the  commander,  Air  Force  forces  (COMAFFOR);  the COMAFFOR has specified ADCON over attached forces. 3.11.  Carries  out  wartime  and  contingency  civil  defense  and  disaster  preparedness responsibilities. 4.  Direct Communication.  HQ AFRC is authorized direct communications with MAJCOMs, field oper- ating agencies, direct reporting units, specified military departments, federal and Department of Defense agencies, and individual members on matters related to unit mission accomplishment. All communication with AFRC units by non-AFRC agencies is through HQ AFRC. DAVID L. GOLDFEIN, General, USAF Vice Chief of Staff 