Army  Regulation  130–5AFMD  10Army  National  GuardOrganizationand Functionsof NationalGuard BureauHeadquartersDepartments  of  the  Army,  Department  ofthe  Air  ForceWashington,  DC30  December  2001UNCLASSIFIEDSUMMARY of CHANGEAR 130–5/AFMD 10Organization and Functions of National Guard BureauThis revision--o  Describes the responsibilities of the Chief, National Guard Bureau (para 1-4).o  Adds the National Guard Charter (fig 1-1) as jointly developed and prescribedby the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant tosection 10503, title 10, United States Code (para 1-7).o  Describes the principal organizational elements of the National Guard Bureau(para 3-2).HeadquartersDepartments  of  the  Army,Department  of  the  Air  ForceWashington,  DC30  December  2001*Army  Regulation  130–5*AFMD  10Effective  30  January  2002Army  National  GuardOrganization  and  Functions  of  National  Guard  BureauH i s t o r y .   T h i s   p r i n t i n g   p u b l i s h e s   ar e v i s i o n   o f   t h i s   p u b l i c a t i o n .   B e c a u s e   t h ep u b l i c a t i o n   h a s   b e e n   e x t e n s i v e l y   r e v i s e d ,t h e   c h a n g e d   p o r t i o n s   h a v e   n o t   b e e nhighlighted.S u m m a r y .   T h i s   r e g u l a t i o n   c o v e r s   t h epolicy,  major  functions,  and  organizationof  the  National  Guard  Bureau  as  a  JointBureau  of  the  Department  of  the  Armyand  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.  Itupdates  the  1977  edition  by  incorporatingthe  changes  to  the  organization  and  func-tions  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  as  setforth  in  the  new  sections  10501  through1 0 5 0 7 ,   c h a p t e r   1 0 1 1 ,   t i t l e   1 0 ,   U n i t e dStates  Code  (10  USC  10501–10507).  TheNational  Guard  Bureau  Charter  prescribesthe  duties  and  responsibilities  of  the  Na-tional  Guard  Bureau.Applicability.  This  regulation  applies  tot h e   A c t i v e   A r m y ,   t h e   A r m y   N a t i o n a lGuard,  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,and  the  Air  National  Guard.Proponent  and  exception  authority.The  proponent  of  this  regulation  is  theChief, National Guard Bureau. The Chief,National  Guard  Bureau  has  the  authorityto  approve  exceptions  to  this  regulationthat  are  consistent  with  controlling  lawa n d   r e g u l a t i o n s .   T h e   C h i e f ,   N a t i o n a lGuard  Bureau  may  delegate  this  approvalauthority  in  writing  to  a  division  chiefwithin  the  proponent  agency  in  the  gradeo f   c o l o n e l   o r   c i v i l i a n   e q u i v a l e n t .   T h ereporting  requirements  in  this  publicationare  exempt  from  licensing  in  accordancewith  paragraph  2.11.12  of  Air  Force  In-struction  33–324.Army management control process.This regulation contains management con-trol  provisions,  but  it  does  not  identifyk e y   m a n a g e m e n t   c o n t r o l s   t h a t   m u s t   b eevaluated.S u p p l e m e n t a t i o n .   S u p p l e m e n t a t i o n   o fthis  regulation  and  establishment  of  com-mand and local forms are prohibited with-o u t   p r i o r   a p p r o v a l   f r o m   t h e   N a t i o n a lG u a r d   B u r e a u .   A T T N :   N G B – J A ,   A r -lington,  VA  22202–3231.Suggested  Improvements.  Users  areinvited  to  send  comments  and  suggestedimprovements on DA Form 2028 (Recom-m e n d e d   C h a n g e s   t o   P u b l i c a t i o n s   a n dB l a n k   F o r m s )   d i r e c t l y   t o   t h e   N a t i o n a lG u a r d   B u r e a u .   A T T N :   N G B – S D P ,   A r -lington,  VA  22202–3231.Distribution.  This  publication  is  availa-ble  in  electronic  media  only  and  is  in-tended  for  command  levels  D  and  E  fort h e   A c t i v e   A r m y ,   t h e   A r m y   N a t i o n a lGuard,  and  the  U.S.  Army  Reserve.  AirForce  distribution:  F.*This  regulation  supersedes  AR  130–5/AFR  45–17,  dated  8  December  1977AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)  30  December  2001UNCLASSIFIEDiContents (Listed  by  paragraph  and  page  number)Chapter  1Introduction,  page 1Section  IGeneral,  page 1Purpose  (cid:127) 1–1,  page 1References  (cid:127) 1–2,  page 1Explanation  of  abbreviations  and  terms  (cid:127) 1–3,  page 1Section  IIResponsibilities,  page 1Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  (cid:127) 1–4,  page 1Legal  basis  (cid:127) 1–5,  page 1Special  relationships  (cid:127) 1–6,  page 1History  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  (cid:127) 1–7,  page 2Chapter  2National  Guard  Bureau  Mission  and  Charter,  page 5Mission  (cid:127) 2–1,  page 5National  Guard  Bureau  Charter  (cid:127) 2–2,  page 5Governing  regulations  when  not  in  active  Federal  service  (cid:127) 2–3,  page 5Legal  opinions  (cid:127) 2–4,  page 5Chapter  3Organization,  page 5General  (cid:127) 3–1,  page 5Major  organizational  elements  (cid:127) 3–2,  page 6Chapter  4Appointments  and  Duties,  page 6Appointment  of  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  (cid:127) 4–1,  page 6Appointment  of  Vice  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  (cid:127) 4–2,  page 6Succession  (cid:127) 4–3,  page 7Appointment  of  Director,  Army  National  Guard  (cid:127) 4–4,  page 7Appointment  of  Deputy  Director,  Army  National  Guard  (cid:127) 4–5,  page 7Appointment  of  Director,  Air  National  Guard  (cid:127) 4–6,  page 8Appointment  of  Deputy  Director,  Air  National  Guard  (cid:127) 4–7,  page 8Other  statutory  officers  (cid:127) 4–8,  page 8Appendix  A. References,  page 9Figure  ListFigure  1–1:  National  Guard  Bureau  Charter,  page 3Figure  1–1:  National  Guard  Bureau  Charter–Continued,  page 4GlossaryiiAR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001Chapter  1IntroductionSection  IGeneral1–1.  PurposeThis regulation prescribes the major functions and organization of the National Guard Bureau as a Joint Bureau of theDepartment  of  the  Army  and  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.1–2.  ReferencesRequired  and  related  publications  and  prescribed  and  referenced  forms  are  listed  in  appendix  A.1–3.  Explanation  of  abbreviations  and  termsAbbreviations  and  special  terms  used  in  this  regulation  are  explained  in  the  glossary.Section  IIResponsibilities1–4.  Chief,  National  Guard  BureauThe  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  will—a.  Serve as the principal adviser to the Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff of the Army and the Secretaryof the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force on matters relating to the National Guard, the Army NationalGuard  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States.b.  Establish  State  military  headquarters  in  the  50  States,  Guam,  the  District  of  Columbia,  the  Commonwealth  ofPuerto  Rico,  and  the  Virgin  Islands;  plan  for  and  conduct  operations  in  support  of  civil  defense;  and  utilize  the  Stateadjutants  general  and  their  State  headquarters.c.  Be  the  “responsible  department  official”  who  implements  title  VI  of  the  Civil  Rights  Act  of  1964,  and  DODDirective  5500.11,  as  it  applies  to  the  Army  and  Air  National  Guard  (NGR  600–23/ANGR  30–12).d.  Administer the National Guard technician program, as redelegated by the Secretaries of the Army and Air Force,in a manner consistent with approved policies, directives, regulations, and publications of the Army and Air Force (AR570–4,  AR  135–2,  Department  of  the  Army  General  Order  85,  1968,  and  AFI  36–103).e.  Implement  the  Small  Business  Program  in  the  National  Guard  Bureau  (DODD  4205.1).f.  Submit  to  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  through  the  Secretaries  of  the  Army  and  the  Air  Force,  an  annual  report  onthe state of the National Guard and the ability of the National Guard to meet its missions. The report will be preparedin  conjunction  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Army  and  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  may  be  submitted  in  classifiedand  unclassified  versions.1–5.  Legal  basisUnder  the  provisions  of  section  10501,  title  10,  United  States  Code  (10  USC  10501),  the  National  Guard  Bureau—a.  Is established in the Department of Defense as a Joint Bureau of the Department of the Army and the Departmentof  the  Air  Force.b.  Is the channel of communication between the Departments of the Army and the Air Force and the several stateson  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  National  Guard,  the  Army  National  Guard  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Air  NationalGuard  of  the  United  States.1–6.  Special  relationshipsa.  States.  The  Army  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  and  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  arereserve components of the Army and the Air Force, respectively. Members of the Army National Guard of the UnitedStates and of the Air National Guard of the United States are not in active Federal service except when ordered theretoin  accordance  with  law,  or  called  into  active  Federal  service  in  their  status  as  members  of  the  National  Guard.  Whennot in active Federal service, such members are administered, armed, equipped, and trained in their status as membersof  the  Army  National  Guard  and  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  several  states  (sections  10107  and  10113,  title  10,United  States  Code  (10  USC  10107,  10113)).b.  Command  jurisdiction.(1)  The  Governor  of  each  State,  Guam,  the  Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico,  and  the  Virgin  Islands  is  the  Com-mander in Chief of all Army and Air National Guard units not in active Federal service within his or her  jurisdiction.Command  is  normally  exercised  by  an  adjutant  general  or  other  designated  military  official  of  the  State,  Guam,Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico,  or  the  Virgin  Islands.(2)  The President of the United States is the Commander in Chief of the National Guard of the District of Columbia.AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  20011Command  is  exercised  through  the  Secretary  of  Defense  and  the  Commanding  General  of  the  District  of  ColumbiaNational Guard, as provided in Executive Order No. 11485, 1 October 1969 (34 FR 15411). The Secretary of Defensehas  delegated  his  command  authority  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Army  with  respect  to  the  District  of  Columbia  ArmyNational Guard and to the Secretary of the Air Force with respect to the District of Columbia Air National Guard by amemorandum  dated  10  October  1996.1–7.  History  of  the  National  Guard  BureauThe Constitution and Bill of Rights made specific provision for continuing a militia as a military force. Following theestablishment  of  the  Federal  Government  in  1792,  the  militia  remained  under  complete  control  of  the  States  untilcongressional  enactment  of  the  Dick  Military  Act  in  1903,  which  made  the  Federal  Government  responsible  for  theirtraining, equipment, and pay. The administrative burden placed upon the War Department by that legislation led to thecreation of a type of bureau agency to administer militia affairs. With the support thus provided, the militia developedinto  sufficiently  well-organized  and  uniformly  trained  units  to  permit,  under  the  National  Defense  Act  of  1916,  asamended, the necessary alignment with the Regular Army and Federal recognition of the militia of individual states asa  composite  National  Guard.  During  1916,  the  antecedent  unit  of  the  present-day  Air  National  Guard  was  formed.  Itsseparate status as a component was later brought about by the National Security Act of 1947. With the creation of theseparate components, the National Guard Bureau continued as a Bureau of the Department of the Army, and it becamean  agency  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force  to  perform  similar  functions  and  duties  for  that  Department.  TheDepartment  of  the  Army  Reorganization  Act  of  1958  designated  the  National  Guard  Bureau  as  a  Joint  Bureau  of  theDepartment  of  the  Army  and  the  Air  Force.  The  Reserve  Officers  Personnel  Management  Act  (the  Act),  dated  5October  1994,  reaffirmed  that  there  is  in  the  Department  of  Defense  the  National  Guard  Bureau,  which  is  a  JointBureau  of  the  Department  of  the  Army  and  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,  and  directed  that  the  Secretaries  of  theArmy and the Air Force jointly develop and prescribe a charter for the National Guard Bureau covering the matters setforth  in  the  Act.  (See  fig  1–1.)2AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001Figure  1–1.  National  Guard  Bureau  CharterAR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  20013Figure  1–1.  National  Guard  Bureau  Charter–Continued4AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001Chapter  2National  Guard  Bureau  Mission  and  Charter2–1.  MissionThe  mission  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  is  to—a.  Participate  with  the  Army  and  the  Air  Force  staffs  in  the  formulation,  development,  and  coordination  of  allprograms, policies, concepts, and plans pertaining to or affecting the National Guard, the Army National Guard of theUnited  States,  and  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States.b.  Develop and administer such detailed operating programs as are required for the operation of the Army NationalGuard  and  the  Air  National  Guard,  based  on  approved  programs,  policies,  and  guidance  from  the  Department  of  theArmy  and  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.c.  Participate  with  and  assist  the  several  states  in  the  organization,  maintenance,  and  operation  of  their  NationalGuard units so as to provide trained and equipped units capable of immediate expansion to war strength, and availablefor  service  in  time  of  war  or  emergency  to  augment  the  Active  Army  and  Air  Force.2–2.  National  Guard  Bureau  CharterSection 10503, chapter 1011, title 10, United States Code (10 USC 10503), directed the Secretary of the Army and theSecretary  of  the  Air  Force  to  develop  a  charter  for  the  National  Guard  Bureau.  This  has  been  accomplished  with  thecooperation  and  assistance  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  and  the  Army  and  Air  staffs.  The  charter,  which  prescribesthe  duties  and  responsibilities  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau,  is  at  figure  1–1  and  is  a  part  of  this  regulation.2–3.  Governing  regulations  when  not  in  active  Federal  servicea.  Army  regulations  and  Air  Force  instructions.  Army  regulations  and  Air  Force  instructions  govern  the  NationalGuard not in the active Federal service in the same manner as they do the regular components, when such regulationsor  instructions  have  been  made  applicable  to  the  National  Guard.  Specific  applicability  is  indicated  in  departmentalregulations  and  instructions.b.  Army National Guard regulations and Air National Guard instructions. Army National Guard regulations will bebased on Army policies fully coordinated with HQDA, approved by the Chief of Staff, United States Army, and issuedby  order  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  Air  National  Guard  instructions  will  be  issued  subject  to  the  approval  of  theChief  of  Staff,  United  States  Air  Force,  and  issued  by  order  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.  These  regulations  orinstructions are binding on the National Guard and on all agents of the Active Army and Active Air Force in the samemanner  as  Army  regulations  and  Air  Force  instructions.  Joint  Regulations  may  be  issued  when  the  subject  matter  isapplicable  to  both  the  Army  and  Air  National  Guard,  with  the  approval  of  both  the  Department  of  the  Army  and  theDepartment  of  the  Air  Force.c.  Other  National  Guard  publications.  The  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  will  issue  such  other  publications  asnecessary, provided that such publications are consistent with approved policies of the Secretary and Chief of Staff  ofthe Department concerned. Such publications may cover areas of operation not fully clarified or detailed in departmen-tal  publications.  They  will  be  binding  only  upon  the  Army  or  Air  National  Guard,  as  appropriate.d.  Comparative status of National Guard and Air National Guard regulations and Army and Air Force regulations.National  Guard  and  Air  National  Guard  regulations  are  issued  by  the  authority  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Army  andSecretary  of  the  Air  Force,  and  they  therefore  carry  the  same  force  and  effect  as  Army  and  Air  Force  regulations.2–4.  Legal  opinionsThe  legal  opinions  rendered  by  the  Office  of  the  General  Counsel,  Department  of  Defense;  Office  of  the  GeneralCounsel, Army; Office of the General Counsel, Air Force; Office of the Judge Advocate General, Army; and the Officeof the Judge Advocate General, Air Force are applicable to and binding upon the National Guard Bureau and the Armyand  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  to  the  same  extent  as  those  legal  opinions  are  binding  upon  theDepartment  of  Defense,  Department  of  the  Army,  and  Department  of  the  Air  Force.Chapter  3Organization3–1.  GeneralThe  organization  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  includes  the  offices  of  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau;  Director,Army  National  Guard;  Director,  Air  National  Guard;  Chief  Counsel;  Comptroller;  Inspector  General;  and  such  otherAR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  20015subordinate offices and operating divisions as required to discharge the responsibilities of the National Guard Bureau ofthe  Department  of  the  Army  and  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.3–2.  Major  organizational  elementsa.  Office  of  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  is  composed  of  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau;  Vice-Chief,National Guard Bureau; Chief of Staff; Executive Office; United States Property and Fiscal Officers; and such separateoffices  as  are  required  by  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau.b.  Office  of  the  Director,  Army  National  Guard  is  composed  of  the  Director,  Army  National  Guard;  DeputyDirector,  Army  National  Guard;  Executive  Office;  and  such  operating  divisions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Chief,National Guard Bureau for those matters pertaining to the Army National Guard and the Army National Guard of  theUnited  States.c.  Office of the Director, Air National Guard is composed of the Director, Air National Guard; Deputy Director, AirNational  Guard;  Executive  Office;  and  such  operating  divisions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Chief,  National  GuardBureau  for  those  matters  pertaining  to  the  Air  National  Guard  and  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States.d.  Office of the Chief Counsel, National Guard Bureau is composed of the Chief Counsel and such additional  staffas may be needed to provide legal support to the Chief, National Guard Bureau, other National Guard Bureau offices,the  Adjutants  General,  and  the  United  States  Property  and  Fiscal  Officers.e.  Office  of  the  Comptroller,  National  Guard  Bureau  is  composed  of  the  Comptroller  and  such  additional  staff  asmay  be  prescribed  by  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau.f.  Office  of  the  Inspector  General  is  composed  of  the  Inspector  General  and  such  other  staff  as  may  be  required  toperform  the  Inspector  General  functions  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau.Chapter  4Appointments  and  Duties4–1.  Appointment  of  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureaua.  How  appointed.  The  President,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  appoints  the  Chief  of  theNational Guard Bureau from officers of the Army National Guard of the United States and the Air National Guard  ofthe  United  States  who—(1)  Are  recommended  for  such  appointment  by  their  respective  Governors  or,  in  the  case  of  the  District  ofColumbia,  by  the  commanding  general  of  the  District  of  Columbia  National  Guard.(2)  Have  had  at  least  10  years  of  federally  recognized  commissioned  service  in  an  active  status  in  the  NationalGuard.(3)  Are  in  a  grade  above  the  grade  of  brigadier  general.b.  Term of office. An officer appointed as Chief of the National Guard Bureau serves at the pleasure of the Presidentfor  a  term  of  4  years.  An  officer  may  not  hold  the  office  of  chief  after  becoming  64  years  of  age.  An  officer  may  bereappointed as Chief of the National Guard Bureau. While holding the office, the Chief of the National Guard Bureaumay  not  be  removed  from  the  reserve  active  status  list,  or  from  an  active  status  under  any  provision  of  law  thatotherwise  would  require  such  removal  due  to  completion  of  a  specified  number  of  years  of  service  or  a  specifiednumber  of  years  of  service  in  grade.c.  Duties. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau is the principal adviser to the Secretary of the Army, the Chief ofStaff  of  the  Army,  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  and  the  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  on  matters  relating  to  theNational Guard, the Army National Guard of the United States, and the Air National Guard of the United States. He orshe ensures that the National Guard Bureau performs those functions contained in the National Guard Bureau  charter,as  more  specifically  defined  in  this  regulation,  or  such  other  functions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Secretary  of  theArmy  or  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.d.  Grade.  The  Chief  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  will  be  appointed  to  serve  in  the  grade  of  lieutenant  general.4–2.  Appointment  of  Vice  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureaua.  How appointed. The Vice Chief, National Guard Bureau, is selected by the Secretary of Defense from officers ofthe  Army  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  or  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  who—(1)  Are  recommended  for  such  appointment  by  their  respective  Governors  or,  in  the  case  of  the  District  ofColumbia,  the  commanding  general  of  the  District  of  Columbia  National  Guard.(2)  Have  had  at  least  10  years  of  federally  recognized  commissioned  service  in  an  active  status  in  the  NationalGuard.(3)  Are  in  a  grade  above  the  grade  of  colonel.b.  Term of office. An officer appointed as Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau serves for a term of 4 years, buthe or she may be removed from office at any time for cause. The Chief and Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau6AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001may not both be members of the Army or of the Air Force. The term of the Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureauwill end upon the appointment of a Chief of the National Guard Bureau who is a member of the same armed force  asthe  Vice  Chief.  However,  the  Secretary  of  Defense  may  waive  the  restrictions  for  a  limited  period  of  time  to  providefor  the  orderly  transition  of  officers  to  serve  in  the  positions  of  Chief  and  Vice  Chief  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau.c.  Duties. The Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau performs such duties as may be prescribed by the Chief ofthe  National  Guard  Bureau.d.  Grade.  The  Vice  Chief  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  will  be  appointed  to  serve  in  the  grade  of  major  general.e.  Functions as Acting Chief. When there is a vacancy in the office of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau or inthe  absence  or  disability  of  the  Chief,  the  Vice  Chief  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau  acts  as  Chief  and  performs  theduties  of  the  Chief  until  a  successor  is  appointed  or  the  absence  or  disability  ceases.4–3.  SuccessionWhen there is a vacancy in the offices of both Chief and Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau or in the absence ordisability  of  both  the  Chief  and  Vice  Chief  of  the  National  Guard  Bureau,  or  when  there  is  a  vacancy  in  one  suchoffice and in the absence or disability of the officer holding the other, the senior officer of the Army National Guard ofthe United States or the Air National Guard of the United States on duty with the National Guard Bureau shall performthe duties of the Chief until a successor to the Chief or Vice Chief is appointed or the absence or disability of the Chiefor  Vice  Chief  ceases,  as  the  case  may  be.4–4.  Appointment  of  Director,  Army  National  Guarda.  How  appointed.  The  President,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  shall  appoint  the  Director,Army National Guard from general officers of the active Army National Guard of the United States nominated by theirrespective Governors or, in the case of the District of Columbia, the commanding general of the District of  ColumbiaNational Guard. The Secretary of Defense may not recommend an officer to the President for appointment as Director,Army  National  Guard  unless  the  officer—(1)  Is  recommended  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Army.(2)  Is  determined  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  to  have  significant  joint  duty  experience.  Until  1October 2003, the Secretary of Defense may waive this requirement if the Secretary of the Army requests the  waiver,and,  in  the  judgment  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  the  officer  is  qualified  for  service  in  the  position  and  the  waiver  isnecessary  for  the  good  of  the  service.b.  Term of office. The Director, Army National Guard will be appointed for a period of 4 years, but he or she  maybe removed for cause at any time. The officer serving as Director may be reappointed for one additional 4-year period.c.  Grade.  The  Director,  Army  National  Guard  will  serve  in  the  grade  of  lieutenant  general.d.  Duties.  The  Director,  Army  National  Guard,  under  the  supervision  and  control  of  the  Chief,  National  GuardBureau,  performs  those  administrative  and  operational  functions  of  the  Chief  pertaining  to  the  Army  National  Guardand  the  Army  National  Guard  of  the  United  States.  The  organization  of  the  office  of  Director,  Army  National  Guardand the operating divisions thereunder, with specific functions and responsibilities, will be as prescribed by the Chief,National  Guard  Bureau.e.  Succession.  In  the  event  the  office  of  the  Director,  Army  National  Guard  becomes  vacant,  or  the  incumbent,because  of  disability,  is  unable  to  discharge  the  responsibilities  and  the  duties  thereof,  the  Deputy  Director,  ArmyNational  Guard  will  act  as  Director,  Army  National  Guard  until  the  disability  ceases  or  a  successor  is  appointed.4–5.  Appointment  of  Deputy  Director,  Army  National  Guarda.  How appointed. The Secretary of the Army will appoint the Deputy Director, Army National Guard from officersof  the  active  Army  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  who—(1)  Have  been  recommended  by  their  respective  Governors  or,  in  the  case  of  the  District  of  Columbia,  theCommanding  General  of  the  District  of  Columbia  National  Guard.(2)  Have had at least 10 years of federally recognized commissioned service in the active Army National Guard  ofthe  United  States  immediately  preceding  their  appointment.b.  Term of office. The Deputy Director, Army National Guard will be appointed for a term not to exceed 4 years. Heor  she  may  serve  consecutive  terms.c.  Grade.  The  Deputy  Director,  Army  National  Guard  will  serve  in  the  grade  of  brigadier  general.d.  Duties.  The  Deputy  Director,  Army  National  Guard  is  the  principal  assistant  to  the  Director,  Army  NationalGuard  and  performs  such  duties  and  functions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Director,  Army  National  Guard.e.  Succession.  In  the  event  the  office  of  the  Deputy  Director,  Army  National  Guard  becomes  vacant,  or  theincumbent, because of disability, is unable to discharge the responsibilities and duties thereof, the next senior officer ofthe  Army  National  Guard  assigned  to  the  National  Guard  Bureau  will  act  as  Deputy  Director,  Army  National  Guardunless  otherwise  directed  by  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau.AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  200174–6.  Appointment  of  Director,  Air  National  Guarda.  How appointed. The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint the Director,  AirNational  Guard  from  rated  general  officers  of  the  active  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  nominated  by  theirrespective Governors or, in the case of the District of Columbia, the commanding general of the District of  ColumbiaNational Guard. The Secretary of Defense may not recommend an officer to the President for appointment as Director,Air  National  Guard,  unless  the  officer—(1)  Is  recommended  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.(2)  Is  determined  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  to  have  significant  joint  duty  experience.  Until  1October  2003,  the  Secretary  of  Defense  may  waive  this  requirement  if  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  requests  thewaiver,  and,  in  the  judgment  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  the  officer  is  qualified  for  service  in  the  position  and  thewaiver  is  necessary  for  the  good  of  the  service.b.  Term of office. The Director, Air National Guard will be appointed for a period of 4 years, but he or she may beremoved  for  cause  at  any  time.  The  officer  may  be  reappointed  for  one  additional  4-year  period.c.  Grade.  The  Director,  Air  National  Guard  will  serve  in  the  grade  of  lieutenant  general.d.  Duties. The Director, Air National Guard, under the supervision and control of the Chief, National Guard Bureau,performs those administrative and operational functions of the Chief pertaining to the Air National Guard and the  AirNational Guard of the United States. The organization of the office of Director, Air National Guard and the  operatingdivisions  thereunder,  with  specific  functions  and  responsibilities,  will  be  as  prescribed  by  the  Chief,  National  GuardBureau.e.  Succession. In the event the office of the Director, Air National Guard becomes vacant, or the incumbent, becauseof disability, is unable to discharge the responsibilities and the duties thereof, the Deputy Director, Air National Guardwill  act  as  Director,  Air  National  Guard  until  the  disability  ceases  or  a  successor  is  appointed.4–7.  Appointment  of  Deputy  Director,  Air  National  Guarda.  How appointed. The Secretary of the Air Force will appoint the Deputy Director, Air National Guard from ratedofficers  of  the  active  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  who—(1)  Have  been  recommended  by  their  respective  Governors,  or,  in  the  case  of  the  District  of  Columbia,  theCommanding  General  of  the  District  of  Columbia  National  Guard.(2)  Have had at least 10 years of federally recognized commissioned service in the active Air National Guard of theUnited  States  immediately  preceding  the  appointment.b.  Term of office. The Deputy Director, Air National Guard will be appointed for a term not to exceed 4 years. Heor  she  may  serve  consecutive  terms.c.  Grade.  The  Deputy  Director,  Air  National  Guard  will  serve  in  the  grade  of  brigadier  general.d.  Duties.  The  Deputy  Director,  Air  National  Guard  is  the  principal  assistant  to  the  Director,  Air  National  Guard,and  he  or  she  performs  such  duties  and  functions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Director,  Air  National  Guard.e.  Succession. In the event the office of the Deputy Director, Air National Guard becomes vacant, or the incumbent,because  of  disability,  is  unable  to  discharge  the  responsibilities  and  duties  thereof,  the  next  senior  officer  of  the  AirNational  Guard  assigned  to  the  National  Guard  Bureau  will  act  as  Deputy  Director,  Air  National  Guard  unlessotherwise  directed  by  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau.4–8.  Other  statutory  officersIn addition to the above officers, the National Guard Bureau will have a legal counsel, a comptroller, and an inspectorgeneral.  Appointment  of  these  officers  will  be  by  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau.  Such  appointments  will  complywith  all  applicable  departmental  personnel  and  manpower  rules,  regulations,  and  policies.  Officers  appointed  willperform  such  duties  as  the  Chief  may  prescribe.8AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001Appendix  AReferencesSection  IRequired  PublicationsAFI  36–103Organizational  Responsibility  for  Civilian  Personnel  Administration  and  Management  (Cited  in  para  1–4d)  http://afpubs.hq.af.milAR  135–2Full-Time  Support  Program  (Cited  in  para  1–4d)AR  570–4Manpower  Management  (Cited  in  para  1–4d)Section  IIRelated  PublicationsA related publication is merely a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand thispublication.AFI  33–324The  Information  Collections  and  Reports  Management  Program;  Controlling  Internal,  Public,  and  Interagency  AirForce  Information  Collections  http://afpubs.hq.af.milDA  GO  85Department  of  the  Army  General  Order  85,  1968Department  of  the  Army  Reorganization  Act  of  1958,  P.L.  85–599http://www.nara.gov/nara/legislativeDick  Military  Act  of  1903,  32  Stat  775http://www.nara.gov/nara/legislativeDODD  4205.1Department  of  Defense  Small  and  Small  Disadvantaged  Business  Utilization  Programs  http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directivesDODD  5500.11Nondiscrimination  in  Federally  Assisted  Programs  http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directivesEO  11485Executive  Order  No.  11485,  1  Oct.  69  (34  FR  15411)  http://www.nara.gov/fedreg/eo.htmlNational  Defense  Act  of  1916,  as  amendedhttp://www.nara.gov/nara/legislativeNational  Security  Act  of  1947http://www.nara.gov/nara/legislativeNGR  600–23/ANGR  30–12Nondiscrimination  in  Federally  Assisted  Programs  http://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.milTitle  VI  of  the  Civil  Rights  Act  of  1964http://www.nara.gov/nara/legislative10  USC  331–333  or  12406www4.law.cornell.edu/uscodeAR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001910  USC  10107www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode10  USC  10113www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode10  USC  10501www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode10  USC  10503www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode10  USC  12301–12304www4.law.cornell.edu/uscodeSection  IIIPrescribed  FormsThis  section  contains  no  entries.Section  IVReferenced  FormsThis  section  contains  no  entries.10AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  2001GlossarySection  IAbbreviationsANGIAir  National  Guard  instructionNGBNational  Guard  BureauNGRNational  Guard  regulationSection  IITermsAir  National  GuardThat  part  of  the  federally  recognized  organized  militia  of  the  several  states  that  is  an  air  force,  is  trained,  and  has  itsofficers  appointed  under  the  sixteenth  clause  of  section  8,  article  I  of  the  Constitution;  and  is  organized,  armed,  andequipped  wholly  or  partly  at  Federal  expense.Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  StatesThe  reserve  component  of  the  Air  Force,  all  of  whose  members  are  members  of  the  Air  National  Guard.Army  National  GuardThat  part  of  the  federally  recognized  organized  militia  of  the  several  states  that  is  a  land  force,  is  trained,  and  has  itsofficers  appointed  under  the  sixteenth  clause  of  section  8,  article  I  of  the  Constitution;  and  is  organized,  armed,  andequipped  wholly  or  partly  at  Federal  expense.Army  National  Guard  of  the  United  StatesThe  reserve  component  of  the  Army,  all  of  whose  members  are  members  of  the  Army  National  Guard.CallThe  procedure,  under  sections  331–333  or  12406,  title  10,  United  States  Code  (10  USC  331–333  or  12406),  throughwhich the President brings all or a part of the National Guard (as part of the militia of the United States) into the activemilitary  service  of  the  United  States.National  GuardThe  Army  National  Guard  and  the  Air  National  Guard.OrderThe  procedure  under  sections  12301–12304,  title  10,  United  States  Code  (10  USC  12301–12304),  through  which  theArmy  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  and  the  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  as  reserve  componentsenter  into  the  active  military  service  of  the  United  States.Several  StatesThe  50  states,  Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico,  Guam,  the  District  of  Columbia,  and  the  Virgin  Islands.Section  IIISpecial  Abbreviations  and  TermsThis  section  contains  no  entries.AR  130–5/AFMD  10  (cid:127)   30  December  200111UNCLASSIFIEDPIN  004541–000USAPAELECTRONIC  PUBLISHING  SYSTEMOneCol  FORMATTER  .WIN32  Version  171PIN:DATE:TIME:PAGES  SET:004541–00001-11-0209:00:1115C:\wincomp\r130-5.filDATA  FILE:DOCUMENT:AR  130–5DOC  STATUS: REVISION