BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 27 30 JANUARY 2017  AIR FORCE FLIGHT STANDARDS AGENCY (AFFSA)     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  HQ AFFSA/CC  Supersedes:  AFMD 27, 28 November 12  Certified by: HQ AF/A3X  (Mr. Steven A. Ruehl) Pages: 8 This publication delineates the mission, chain of command and responsibilities of the Air Force Flight  Standards  Agency  (AFFSA).    AFFSA  is  a  Field  Operating  Agency  organized  under  the Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Operations,  Headquarters,  United  States  Air  Force.    In  accordance  with DODI  5100.73,  Major  DoD  Headquarters  Activities,  AFFSA  is  a  military  department management headquarters activity departmental activity.  This AFMD supports Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-2, Aircrew Operations, and AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace and Range  Management.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS) Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS).    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication has been updated to capture changes that occurred as a result of the removal of pilot  currency  and  other  flying  operations  as  well  as  delineation  of  sustainment  programs, removes  responsibilities  for  Airfield  Operations  Compliance  Inspection  programs  and  adds  the development of Airfield  Operations Self-Assessment Communicators, adds the oversight of the Operations Support Facility (OSF), and accounts for the AFFSA realignment to report direct to AF/A3X. 2 AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 1.  Mission.  The AFFSA's mission is to maximize effectiveness of USAF global air operations and ensure USAF access to worldwide airspace in all weather conditions. 2.  Command.  The AFFSA Commander: 2.1.  Reports  directly  to  the  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF)  Director  of  Future  Operations (AF/A3X). 2.2.  Commands  personnel  assigned  to  AFFSA;  organizes,  trains  and  equips  AFFSA personnel with appropriate resources and infrastructure to accomplish the AFFSA mission as contained  herein  (or  as  directed)  and  prepares  deployable  personnel  and  assets  to  support combat, combat support and contingencies as directed. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  Lead Command.  Serves as USAF  Lead Command  IAW AFI 10-902,  Lead Command Designation  and  Responsibilities  for  Weapon  Systems,  for  fixed  and  deployable  Airfield Operations (AO) systems and software.  Airfield Operations systems include both Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems (ATCALS) and Airfield Management (AM): 3.1.1.  Provides  Requirements  Management  for  the  Next  Generation  Air  Transportation System (NextGen), AO systems, and software.  This includes developing and processing Joint  Capabilities  Integration  and  Development  System  and  other  requirements documents,  maintenance  concepts  and  engineering  change  proposals  for  ATCALS  and AM  systems,  addressing  user  requirements  in  all  matters  affecting  the  development, acquisition, modification and logistical support of fixed-base and deployable ATCALS. 3.1.2.  Monitors  and  analyzes  performance  results  against  operational  needs  by  using predetermined standards to ensure user requirements are satisfied and initiates corrective actions  as  necessary.  This  includes  prioritizing  ATCALS  and  other  AO  programs  and modifications  as  co-chair  of  the  Weapons  System  Review  and  advising  the  ATCALS Single  Manager  and  MAJCOMs  in  matters  affecting  logistics  support  of  ATCALS equipment.  Provides system management support for AO systems and software. 3.1.3.  Prepares  and  presents  Program  Objective  Memorandum  (POM)  initiatives  to  the designated Core Function Team and Air Force Corporate Structure. 3.1.4.  Plans and conducts operational test and evaluation (OT&E) of acquisition category III ATCALS. 3.1.5.  Manages  weapon  system  sustainment  (WSS)  activities  for  ATCALS,  air  traffic management  (ATM),  and  national  airspace  system  (NAS)  programs.    Serves  as  Lead Command  and  System  Program  Manager  (SPM)  in  Centralized  Asset  Management (CAM)  for  ATCALS/ATM/NAS  WSS  programs.    Collects,  validates,  and  prioritizes requirements  to  be  published  as  a  part  of  CAM  portfolio.    Works  in  conjunction  with CAM  office  to  prepare  and  present  WSS  POM.    Responsible  for  the  day-to-day management of ATCALS/ATM/NAS execution requirements and funding. 3.1.6.  Serves as DoD requirements lead for fixed-base Air Traffic Control (ATC) radar, automation  and  communications  switching  systems  under  the  NAS  Modernization Program. AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 3 3.2.  Airfield  Operations.    Provides  USAF/DoD-level  subject  matter  expertise  on  AO  and instrument  procedures  systems  and  policies  to  various  groups  within  the  Federal  Aviation Administration  (FAA),  International  Civil  Aeronautical  Organization  (ICAO),  and  North Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO),  to  include  performing  and/or  supporting  Head  of Delegation functions as appointed or requested. 3.2.1.  Serves  as  publication  point  of  contact  for  appropriate  USAF  instructions  for Airfield  Operations  Flight  operations  and  training  to  ensure  mission  accomplishment.  Development of training procedures and requirements will be done in coordination with the applicable HQ USAF AF Career Field Managers (CFMs). 3.2.2.  Formulates and publishes standardized AO training instructions for AM, ATC, and Terminal  Procedures  (TERPS)  development to  ensure  mission  accomplishment.  Development of training procedures and requirements will be done in coordination with the applicable HQ USAF AF CFMs. 3.2.3.  Conducts  the  USAF  TERPS  fundamentals  course  in  order  to  train  and  certify qualified  individuals  as  TERPS  specialists  IAW  AFI  13-204,  Airfield  Operations Procedures and Programs, as well as applicable FAA, ICAO and NATO standards. 3.2.4.  Evaluates  Regular  Air  Force,  Air  National  Guard  (ANG),  and  Air  Reserve Command  (AFRC)  requests  for  deviations  from  standard  AM  or  ATC  operating procedures.    Provides  policy  recommendations  to  FAA,  AF/A3X  and/or  MAJCOM,  as required. 3.2.5.  Conducts  regular,  periodic  system  and  AO  data/trend  analysis  to  monitor effectiveness and safety of USAF AO. 3.2.6.  Formulates  and  publishes  standardized  AO  operating  criteria  and  instructions  to include AM, ATC and TERPS for USAF total force fixed-base and contingency/wartime missions  while  ensuring  interoperability  with  applicable  FAA,  service,  joint,  ICAO  and coalition  guidance.    Evaluates  and  submits  recommendations  for  requests  for  waivers, generates  USAF-level  flying  instructions  and  manuals,  flight  procedures  criteria, aeronautical information and operational guidance for all USAF aircraft.  Interfaces with DoD,  national/international  and  allied/coalition  partners,  and  National  Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) on the instrument procedure coordination processes and data management  issues  required  for  publication  and  maintenance  of  instrument  procedures, including  foreign  terminal  instrument  procedures,  to  enhance  safety  of  navigation  of global flight operations. 3.2.7.  Develops HAF-level Self-Assessment Communicators in accordance with AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System.  Validates HAF-level deficiencies with MAJCOM Inspector Generals and Functional Area Managers and provides corrective action replies for valid actionable deficiencies to the USAF Inspection Agency.  Augments MAJCOM Inspector Generals and inspection teams as required. 3.2.8.  Recognizes outstanding Airmen by conducting quarterly Lt Gen Gordon A. Blake Aircraft  Save  Award  and  Aircraft  Assist  Awards  Boards,  the  annual  US  Air  Force  AO Awards  Boards  and  the  Col  Joseph  B.  Duckworth  Annual  USAF  Instrument  Award Board. 4 AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 3.2.9.  Chairs and coordinates the AO Senior Steering Group (formally  called executive session). 3.2.10.  Relays, through operational experience, current requirements and expectations in the  rapidly  changing  US  NAS. traffic  procedures (USAF/FAA/ICAO)  to  ensure  proper  development,  implementation  and  refinement  of worldwide USAF flying rules and procedures.   Remains  credible in  air 3.2.11.  Operates as the USAF NextGen lead for matters pertaining to airfield operations. 3.3.  ATCALS  Maintenance  and  Policy. procedures, training, maintenance practices, and operational regional maintenance centers.   Oversees  ATCALS  maintenance  policy, 3.3.1.  Provides USAF focal-point for ATCALS maintenance by managing and executing regional maintenance center, Special Maintenance Team (SMT) and ATCALS evaluation activities.    Performs  maintenance  on  Air  Force  ATCALS  assets  world-wide  via geographically  separated  regional  maintenance  centers  located  in  Oklahoma,  Germany, and  Japan.    Resolves  complex  or  unusual  technical  problems  and  provides  enhanced system-specific technical training to USAF technicians and operators. 3.3.2.  Leads  all  day-to-day  maintenance  and  documentation  activities  on  remotely maintainable  AF  navigational  aids  to  include  annual  on-site  periodic  maintenance inspections,  flight  inspections,  and  system  restorals.    Travel  is  required  to  over  100 locations  on  an  annual  basis  to  perform  site  and  system  analysis  ensuring  safe  and optimum equipment performance in its installed environment.  Additional on-site travel is required  for  significant  equipment  outages  that  exceed  the  capabilities  of  software diagnosis or require extensive physical maintenance to encompass storm damage or other physical damage that may occur. 3.3.3.  Serves  as  publication  point  of  contact  for  appropriate  USAF  instructions  for ATCALS operations and training to ensure mission accomplishment.  Manages ATCALS System  Programs  to  MAJCOMs  and  field  units.   Develops  ATCALS  policy, maintenance,  &  training  procedures.    Advises  and  works  closely  with  the  HQ  USAF 1C8XX CFM regarding the foregoing. 3.3.4.  Provides  wind  turbine  modeling/evaluation  and  operational  recommendations  for USAF, ANG and AFRC fixed and deployable ATCALS locations. 3.3.5.  Maintains survey capability to support ATCALS siting, modeling and analysis for ATC radar, navigational aids and communications systems. 3.4.  Flight  Operations  Policy  and  Standards.    Provides  USAF/DoD-level  subject  matter expertise on flight operations policy and standardization. 3.4.1.  Serves  as  the  DoD  lead  agency  for  military  flight  data  policy  and  procedures  to include:  AFI  11-201,  Flight  Information  Publications,  AFI  11-202  Volume  3,  General Flight  Rules,  AFI  11-502,  Volume  3,  Small  Unmanned  Aircraft  Systems  Operations, AFMAN  11-210,  Instrument  Refresher  Program,  AFMAN  11-217,  Volume  1, Instrument  Flight  Procedures,  AFMAN  11-217,  Volume  2,  Visual  Flight  Procedures, AFMAN 11-217, Volume 3, Supplemental Flight Information. 3.4.2.  Develops HAF-level Self-Assessment Communicators in accordance with AFI 90-201.    Validates  HAF-level  deficiencies  with  MAJCOM  Inspector  Generals  and AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 5 Functional  Area  Managers  and  provides  corrective  action  replies  for  valid  actionable deficiencies  to  the  USAF  Inspection  Agency.    Augments  MAJCOM  Inspector  Generals and inspection teams as required. 3.4.3.  Relays,  through  operational  experience,  current  requirements  and  expectations  in the  rapidly  changing  US  NAS. traffic  procedures (USAF/FAA/ICAO), USAF flying procedures and global air operations in order to ensure proper  development,  implementation  and  refinement  of  worldwide  USAF  flying  rules and procedures.   Remains  current in  air 3.4.4.  Conducts  Instrument  Refresher  Program  unit  support  and  staff  assistance  visits and other pertinent mission-related temporary duty as necessary. 3.4.5.  Manages  non-procedural  data  for  USAF  entries  in  DoD  Flight  Information Publication program. 3.4.6.  Conducts  the  USAF  Advanced  Instrument  School  (AIS),  the  premier  USAF instrument flight education program, in order to train and certify qualified individuals as Instrument Refresher Course Instructors and to keep USAF pilots abreast of latest USAF, FAA and ICAO standards and guidance. 3.4.7.  Performs  the  function  of  Flight  Safety  Officer  for  AF/A3X/A3,  to  include membership on the HAF Mishap Working Group and the preparation of briefings for the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force’s semi-annual HAF Mishap Review Board. 3.4.8.  Facilitates  unmanned  aircraft  system  (UAS)  and,  specifically,  remotely-piloted aircraft (RPA) operations in the NAS by developing operations, procedures and standards in  coordination  with  MAJCOMs,  ANG,  other  services,  the  FAA,  joint  and  coalition entities as required, and ensuring ATCALS support this integration. 3.4.9.  Evaluates current/emerging cockpit avionics/displays, data processing systems and instrument  flight  technology  implementation  via  cockpit  working  groups  and  cockpit endorsement for AF/A3X. 3.4.10.  Responsibility for coordination with AF/A3 on Air Force Freedom of Navigation, pursuant  to  DoDI  S-2005.01,  Freedom  of  Navigation  (FoN)  Program  (U).    Air  Force Flight  Standards  Agency  (AFFSA)  is  responsible  for  Safety  of  Navigation  and  the implementation  of  FoN  responsibilities  and  AF/A10  ensures  coordination  with Department of State (U.S. Embassies) and DoD Representative for Ocean Policy Affairs (REPOPA),  in  relation  to  FoN  matters,  pursuant  to  DoDD  4500.54E,  DoD  Foreign Clearance Program 3.5.  Airfield Automation.   Develops  new operational  software  applications, sustains  legacy software systems  and provides software, hardware, and technical  support for ATC and AM automation and operations systems throughout the Air Force.  Maintains the ATC simulation program  and  works  as  a  liaison  between  FAA  and  USAF.    Develops  and  revises  AO Computer  Based  Training  (CBT)  to  maintain  training  continuity  between  MAJCOMs.  Operates the USAF Operational Support Facility for ATC radar automation systems. 3.6.  NextGen.   In coordination  with  the NextGen  Lead Service  Office, develops  standards, procedures,  and  timelines  to  evaluate,  analyze,  and  implement  new  and  emerging technologies  such  as  NextGen,  Communications,  Navigation  and  Surveillance/Air  Traffic 6 AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 Management  (CNS/ATM)  and  other  AO  systems  to  enable  global  access  for  continued USAF aeronautical operations. 3.7.  Investigation Boards.  Provides Accident Investigation Board (AIB) technical expertise and/or  securing  primary  and/or  conditional  ATC/AM/ATCALS/Ops  Safety  Investigation Board  (SIB)  members,  as  required.    Reviews  final  SIB  reports  for  concurrence  and/or providing  comment  for  the  Memorandum  of  Final  Evaluation  regarding  any  SIB Recommendations  tasking  AFFSA  or  AF/A3  affecting  flying  operations,  AM,  ATC, ATCALS, or instrument procedures services. 3.8.  Agreements.    Enters  into  agreements,  such  as:  Memorandums  of  Agreement  (MOAs), Memorandums  of  Understanding  (MOUs),  and  Federal  Reimbursable  Agreements  (FRAs) with agencies listed in paragraph 4 as required to conduct business outlined in this AFMD. 4.  Communications.  Direct  communications  are  authorized  with  the  FAA,  Office  of  the Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD)  Staff,  Joint  Staff,  HAF,  NextGen  Lead  Service  Office,  NextGen Program  Office,  MAJCOMs,  NGB,  units,  Army,  Navy,  Coast  Guard,  Marines,  National Geospatial-Intelligence  Agency,  depots,  systems  telecommunications  engineering  managers (STEMs),  DoD  Policy  Board  on  Federal  Aviation  (PBFA)  representatives  and  joint/coalition forces on matters relating to: 4.1.  Requirements and sustainment management and planning, programming and budgeting of DoD- and USAF-wide AO acquisition or modernization programs. 4.2.  Standardization, interoperability and evaluation of procedures for ATC, AM, ATCALS, flight crews, airfield surveys, TERPS and Remote Maintenance Centers (RMC). 4.3.  Other matters as necessary or as directed by AF/A3X or higher authority. Note:    It  is  necessary  to  follow  prescribed  procedures  and  receive  appropriate  authorizations before  entering  into  discussions  or  completing  an  agreement  with  coalition  partners.    The procedures and guidance is contained in DODD 5530.3, International Agreements and AFI 51-701,  Negotiating,  Concluding,  Reporting,  and  Maintaining  International  Agreements.    The authorization for direct communications in this directive does not supersede the requirements of DODD 5530.3 or AFI 51-701.  SCOTT A. VANDER HAMM, Maj Gen, USAF Assistant DCS, Operations AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 7 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DODI 5100.73, Major DoD Headquarters Activities, December 2007 AFPD 38-6, Mission Directives, 23 December 2014 HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives: Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignment of Responsibilities, 31 March 2016 AFI 10-601, Operational Capabilities Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, 19 January 2012 AFI 11-201, Flight Information Publications, 31 March 2009 AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 10 August 2016 AFI 11-502, Volume 3, Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operations, 21 August 2015 AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Program, 3 February 2005 AFMAN 11-217, Volume 1, Instrument Flight Procedures, 22 October 2010 AFMAN 11-217, Volume 2, Visual Flight Procedures, 22 October 2010 AFMAN 11-217, Volume 3, Supplemental Flight Information, 3 February 2009 AFI 10-902, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield and Range Management, 7 August 2007 AFI 13-204 Volume 1, Airfield Operations Career Field Development, 9 May 2013 AFI 13-204 Volume 2, Airfield Operations Standardization and Evaluation, 1 September 2010 AFI 13-204 Volume 3, Airfield Operations Procedures and Programs, 1 September 2010 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency AIB—Accident Investigation Board AIS—Advanced Instrument School AM—Airfield Management AO—Airfield Operations ATC—Air Traffic Control ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems CAM—Centralized Asset Management 8 AFMD27  30 JANUARY 2017 CFM—Career Field Manager CNS/ATM—Communications, Navigation, Surveillance/Air Traffic Management DoD—Department of Defense FAA—Federal Aviation Administration FRA—Federal Reimbursable Agreements HAF—Headquarters Air Force ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration & Development System MAJCOM—Major Command MOA—Memorandums of Agreement MOU—Memorandums of Understanding NAS—National Airspace System NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization NextGen—Next Generation Air Transportation System NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency OSF—Operational Support Facility OT&E—Operational Testing and Evaluation PBFA—Policy Board for Federal Aviation POM—Program Objective Memorandum RMC—Remote Maintenance Center RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft SMT—Specialized Maintenance Team SIB—Safety Investigation Board SPM—System Program Manager STEM—Systems Telecommunications Engineering Managers TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures UAS—Unmanned Aircraft System WSS—Weapons System Sustainment  