BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 30 6 SEPTEMBER 2016  AIR FORCE HISTORICAL RESEARCH AGENCY (AFHRA)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AFHRA/DR  Supersedes:  AFMD 30, 26 April 2012  Certified by: AF/HO  (Mr. Walter A. Grudzinskas) Pages: 4    This  Directive  states  the  mission,  defines  the  command  structure,  and  establishes  the responsibilities  of  the  Air  Force  Historical  Research  Agency  (AFHRA).  This  publication  does not  apply  to  the  Air  National  Guard.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Director,  Air  Force  History  and  Museums  Policies  and  Programs  (AF/HO), 1190 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1190, Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  The  authorities  to  waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number  following  the  compliance  statement.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This  revision  eliminates  or  revises  mission  areas  to  reflect  the  current  responsibilities  of  the Agency.    This  change  removes  reference  to  preparing  books,  monographs,  research  reports, studies, document collections, bibliographies, and other historical works about the Air Force and other  military  aviation.    Also  removed  were  references  to  advising  the  National  Archives  and Records  Administration  (NARA)  and  other  holders  of  Air  Force  historical  records  about 2 AFMD30  6 SEPTEMBER 2016 downgrading  or  declassification  of  material  in  the  AFHRA  collection,  and  designating  and providing assistance to AFHRA Research Associates. 1.  Mission.  The AFHRA preserves Air Force history and provides information and analyses to support  official  customers  and  the  general  public  in  a  variety  of  venues  and  formats.  The AFHRA also administers the lineage, heritage, and emblems of Air Force organizations; supports contingency operations; prepares reference works; conducts an oral history program; operates an information system to index and retrieve historical data; and provides field support to Air Force History and Museums Program (AFHMP) personnel. 2.  Command. 2.1.  The  AFHRA  is  a  field  operating  agency  (FOA)  reporting  to  AF/HO.  As  a  tenant  at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, it receives support from the 42d Air Base Wing in accordance with a negotiated Host-Tenant Support Agreement (HTSA). 2.2.  The  SAF/AAR  and  the  Air  Force  District  of  Washington  (AFDW)  provide  major command  (MAJCOM)-level  manpower  and  budget  support  as  described  in  support agreements. 2.3.  The  Institute  of  Heraldry,  United  States  Army,  provides  final  art  work,  embroidery manufacturing drawings, and flag drawings for United States Air Force (USAF) heraldry. 2.4.  The  Air  Force  Inspection  Agency  conducts  periodic  Unit  Effectiveness  Inspections  to verify Agency adherence to Public Law, Executive Orders, and Department of Defense and Air Force directives. 3.  Responsibilities.  The AFHRA: 3.1.  Collects,  preserves,  and  manages  the  Air  Force  historical  document  collection.  This collection  includes  periodic  histories  and  supporting  documents  prepared  by  Air  Force organizations,  monographs,  studies,  reports,  operational  data,  recorded  interviews,  personal papers of retired or deceased Air Force personnel, and other source materials. 3.2.  Answers requests for historical information from government agencies and the public. 3.3.  Operates classified and unclassified reading rooms to provide patrons with ready access to source materials. 3.4.  Supports Air Force professional military education programs. 3.5.  Determines the lineage and honors of Air Force organizations and prepares and updates lineage and honors histories of selected organizations. 3.6.  Verifies the aerial victory credits for members of the Air Force and its antecedents. 3.7.  Maintains the organizational records of Air Force units and establishments. 3.8.  Collects  all  HAF  and  MAJOM  7401  reports  and  consolidates  them  into  a  master  Air Force Organizational Status Change Report (RCS: HAF-HO(M)7401). 3.9.  Compiles  and  maintains  a  list  of  active  Air  Force  and  Air  Force  Reserve  Command organizations. AFMD30  6 SEPTEMBER 2016 3 3.10.  Advises  manpower  and  organization  offices  at  HQ  USAF,  MAJCOMs,  Direct Reporting  Units  (DRUs),  and  FOAs  on  the  selection  of  units  and  establishments  to  be activated or inactivated and other related organizational matters. 3.11.  Maintains  the  records  of  Air  Force  organizational  emblems  and  flags.  Reviews, approves,  and  processes  requests  for  new  or  changed  emblems  and  provides  Air  Force guidance on heraldry. 3.12.  Reviews  classified  holdings  for  downgrading  or  declassification  in  accordance  with current guidance. 3.13.  Digitizes historical documentation and provides or sells copies as appropriate. 3.14.  Operates  and  maintains  the  Inferential  Retrieval  Indexing  System  (IRIS)  and  related information system resources to help manage the AFHRA collection. 3.15.  Conducts  and  transcribes  oral  history  interviews  of  current  and  former  Air  Force leaders and other knowledgeable people. 3.16.  Solicits, organizes, and preserves the private papers of retired and deceased personnel of significance to the historical record of the Air Force. 3.17.  Prepares,  conducts,  and  maintains  courses of  instruction  to  meet  objectives  identified by AF/HO. 3.18.  Provides  to  AFHMP  personnel  covering  basic  troubleshooting  of  historical  product deficiencies,  the  interpretation  of  AFHMP  policies  and  procedures,  and  technical  guidance concerning software applications used to prepare organizational history reports. 3.19.  Microfilms  or  digitizes  historical  documentation  and  provides  or  sells  copies  as required. 4.  Direct  Communications.  The  AFHRA  is  authorized  direct  communications  with  all interested parties on matters for which it is responsible.  CHISTY NOLTA Deputy Director of Staff 4 AFMD30  6 SEPTEMBER 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 38-601, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 7 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, Incorporating Change 1.  Prescribed Forms No forms are prescribed by this publication. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Abbreviations and Acronyms AFHMP—Air Force History and Museums Program AF/HO—Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs AFHRA—Air Force Historical Research Agency AFHRA/DR—Director, Air Force Historical Research Agency AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive AU—Air University DoD—Department of Defense DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency IRIS—Inferential Retrieval Indexing System MAJCOM—Major Command OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RDS—Records Disposition Schedule USAF—United States Air Force  