BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 43 15 OCTOBER 2015  AIR FORCE REVIEW BOARDS AGENCY  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   This publication is available on the e-publishing website:   www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  SAF/MRB  Supersedes:  AFMD 43, 1 March 1996  Certified by: SAF/MR  (R. Philip Deavel) Pages: 2  This  directive  outlines  the  core  responsibilities  of  the  Air  Force  Review  Boards  Agency (AFRBA), which acts  for the Secretary of the Air Force in  a broad range of personnel  actions. All  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition  Schedule  located  on  the  AF  Portal  at  the  AF  Records  Information  Management System  (AFRIMS)  link.  Route  recommended  changes  and  questions  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  1.  Mission.  AFRBA acts on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force, via delegation of authority through the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR), or in the case of two boards, the Secretary of Defense, in deciding individual personnel actions before various review boards, as mandated by federal law or regulation.  AFRBA serves as the highest level  of  administrative  review  of  individual  personnel  actions.  In  specified  areas  ranging  from military decorations to service obligations, it is authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary of the Air  Force,  and  in  the  case  of  the  Air  Force  Board  for  Correction  of  Military  Records,  its decisions  are  by  federal  law  binding  on  all  officers  of  the  United  States.    The  AFRBA  core mission that applies to all boards and functions is to ensure fair and impartial treatment, equity, 2 AFMD43  15 OCTOBER 2015 and due process for the military, military veterans, civilian employees, and applicants for civilian employment whose personnel issue or appeal is required to be decided at the civilian, Secretariat level. 2.  Organizational  and  Command  Structure.  The  agency  is  a  FOA  that  reports  directly  to SAF/MR.  AFRBA operates 10 boards.  These boards are  as follows:  The Secretary of the Air Force  Personnel  Council  (which  includes  the  Discharge  Review  Board,  Air  Force  Decoration Board, and Personnel Board), the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records, Air Force Civilian  Appellate  Review  Office,  Personnel  Security  Appeal  Board,  Air  Force  Clemency  & Parole Board, Air Force Remissions Board, Department of Defense Physical Disability Board of Review, and the Department of Defense Civilian/Military Service Review Board. 3.  Responsibilities.  AFRBA: 3.1.  Through  its  component  boards,  and  employing  delegated  authority,  decides  individual cases such as officer grade determinations, resignations in lieu of court-martial, requests for lengthy  service  probation,  awards  and  decorations,  clemency  and  parole,  and  appeals  of personnel security actions. 3.2.  Renders  final  decisions  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  regarding applications for remission of government indebtedness incurred while on active duty.  Acting through  independent  civilian  panels,  decides  applications  from  current  or  former  Air  Force members  alleging  that  their  military  records  contain  errors  or  that  they  were  victims  of  an injustice. 3.3.  Makes final agency decisions on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force in complaints arising under the Equal  Employment Opportunity process by civilian employees, applicants for  civilian  employment,  and  the  Air  Force  Military  Equal  Opportunity program  for uniformed members. 3.4.  As the lead agency for the Department of Defense (DoD) Physical Disability Board of Review,  independently  adjudicates  appeals  to  the  Board  and  makes  recommendations  for final  decisions  on  those  cases  to  each  Military  Service's  designated  decision  authority. Additionally, executes the DoD Disability Evaluation System Quality Assurance Program to ensure consistent application of disability adjudications across the Services. 3.5.  As  the  lead  agency  for  the  DoD,  decides  applications  to  the  Civilian/Military  Service Review Board.  DANIEL R. SITTERLY Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) 