BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 331 JANUARY 2003AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMANDNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ USAF/XOOT  (Col James Brooks) Supersedes AFMD 3, 1 Sept 1996 Certified by: HQ USAF/XO( Lt Gen Charles F. Wald)Pages: 2Distribution: FThis directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the responsibilities of theAir Education and Training Command (AETC). SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision reflects the HAF staff reorganization and recent publication changes.  Redefines flyingtraining responsibilities. Adds the responsibility of oversight, integration and management of the AFAdvanced Distributed Learning Program. 1.  Mission . The mission of Air Education and Training Command (AETC) is to recruit, train, and edu-cate professional airman to sustain the combat capability of America’s Air Force. AETC recruits and pre-pares officers, airmen, and civilian employees for Air Force duties. AETC provides training andeducation as directed by the CSAF for all AF components to ensure Total Force personnel have the requi-site skills, training and education necessary to perform the AF mission. AETC also provides internationaland inter-service training and education. This organization is a Major Command of the United States AirForce. 2.  Command . The Commander, Air Education and Training Command: 2.1.  Commands the forces of the Air Education and Training Command. 2.2.  Is responsible to the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force for administration and opera-tional control of assigned forces. 3.  Responsibilities . 3.1.  Accesses and classifies officer and enlisted personnel. 3.2.  Provides initial military training to officer and enlisted personnel through Basic MilitaryTrain-ing, Officer Training School and/or Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC). 2AFMD3   31 JANUARY 20033.3.  Develops, conducts and evaluates initial skills, advanced technical training and graduate aca-demic education programs. 3.4.  Develops and conducts undergraduate and graduate flying training as assigned by the Chief ofStaff. 3.5.  Conducts joint, medical service, and readiness training. 3.6.  Conducts Air Force security assistance training. 3.7.  Provides and administers professional military education programs for officers, enlisted andcivilian personnel. 3.8.  Administers Air Force ROTC and Junior ROTC programs. 3.9.  Administers the Community College of the Air Force. 3.10.  Recalls Individual Ready Reservists. 3.11.  Provides mobility and contingency tasking support to combatant commanders. 3.12.  Provides oversight, integration and management for the AETC responsibilities concerning theAF Advanced Distributed Learning Program. Coordinates AFADLP functions and implementationactions for the Total Force. 3.13.  Provides management and oversight for the Air Force’s auxiliary Civil Air Patrol. ROBERT H. FOGLESONG,   General, USAF Vice Chief of Staff 