BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 24 22 SEPTEMBER 2016 Intelligence NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE INTELLIGENCE CENTER (NASIC)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  NASIC/CC   Certified by: AF/A2D  (Brig Gen Aaron M. Prupas) Pages: 2  This  directive  states  the  mission,  defines  the  organization  and  command  structure,  and establishes  the  responsibilities  for  the  National  Air  and  Space  Intelligence  Center  (NASIC).  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force  (AF)  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  1.  Mission.  NASIC  is  a  field  operating  agency  (FOA)  organized  under  the  Deputy  Chief  of Staff  (DCS)  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  (ISR),  Department  of  the  Air Force (AF/A2).  Its mission is to create integrated predictive intelligence in the Air, Space, and Cyberspace domains, to enable military operations, force modernization and policy making.    2.  Organization and Command. 2.1.  NASIC is directly subordinate to AF/A2. 2.2.  The NASIC Commander: 2.2.1.  Operates the AF’s Service Intelligence Production Center to conduct scientific and technical intelligence (S&TI) under the policy and guidance of AF/A2. 2.2.2.  Commands  the  Center,  exercising  command  and  administrative  control  over assigned military and civilian personnel. 2 AFMD24  22 SEPTEMBER 2016 2.2.3.  Utilizes  allocated  resources  to  fulfill  both  national  and  service  intelligence requirements  addressing  air-, space-,  and cyber-related issues consistent  with  applicable guidelines and validated priorities for each mission set. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  Serves  as  the  implementation  lead  for  AF/A2  with  functional  expertise  on  S&TI  and internally-generated  products  derived  from  single-source,  multi-source,  and  all-source intelligence. 3.2.  Provides robust, enduring,  and focused foundational  intelligence analysis products  and services  in  direct  support  of  stated  requirements  from  AF  major  commands,  component numbered  air  forces,  joint  commands,  sister  services,  other  DoD  components,  and  US government agencies. 3.3.  Serves  as  a  National  Planning  &  Direction,  Collection,  Processing  &  Exploitation, Analysis, and Dissemination node that collects, processes and analyzes S&TI and non-S&TI data and information from multiple intelligence sources (signals, measurement and signature, open  source,  Open  Skies  Media,  geospatial,  human,  and  foreign  materiel  exploitation) including  fusion-,  multi-source,  and  all-source  analysis  in  response  to  internal  and  external analysis in  response to  internal  and external  analytic requirements while  exercising a broad range of AF and Intelligence Community responsibilities. 3.4.  Communicates and partners with AF organizations at all levels, other services, and other US  agencies  on  matters  of  direct  interest  to  NASIC’s  mission  areas  and  responsibilities  to optimize  integrated  intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance  capabilities  in  order  to optimize integrated intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities. 3.5.  Plans,  programs,  budgets,  and  executes  all  FOA  resources  and  activities  within  the NASIC command. 3.6.  Provides  Joint  Worldwide  Intelligence  Communications  System  services  to  AF components in the eastern continental United States. 3.7.  Serves  as  the  Intelligence  Community  focal  point  for  analysis  of  civil  aviation-related entities associated with illicit activities or posing a threat to the US, its allies, or its interests. 3.8.  Provides  expertise  in  intelligence  analysis  tradecraft  standards,  competencies,  and tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) to support AF/A2’s responsibilities.  ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 