BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 3728 MAY 2003AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER (AFPC)NOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ AFPC/DPSAXM  (Mr. Edward Salzwedel) Supersedes AFMD 37, 1 December 1995. Certified by: HQ USAF/DPP (Maj Gen John M. Speigel)Pages: 2Distribution: FThis mission directive defines the mission, command and responsibilities of the Air Force Personnel Cen-ter (AFPC). SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The pub was updated to comply with AF Policy Directive 10-1, Mission Directives and AFI 10-101, For-mat and Content of Mission Directives. The updates reflect changes in current terminology. Send com-ments and suggested improvements of this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changeof Publication, to HQ AFPC/DPSAX, 550 C Street West Suite 38, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4740. A bar( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition. 1.  Mission. Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC) executes and integrates United StatesAir Force (USAF) personnel programs to develop Air Force (AF) people and meet the field commanders’needs. HQ AFPC is a Field Operating Agency (FOA) of Headquarters United States Air Force. 2.  Command. The AFPC Commander. 2.1.  Is responsible to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, HQ USAF. AFPC/CC executes Person-nel policy by developing, coordinating, and implementing standards, systems, programs and proce-dures for military and civilian personnel operations. 3.  Responsibilities. AFPC. 3.1.  Executes policies which specify the scope of military personnel functions at installation, interme-diate and command levels. 2AFMD37   28 MAY 20033.1.1.  Manages and operates Air Force military personnel data and information systems, executespolicies that govern active duty accessions, testing, classification, assignments, personnel recordssystems, performance evaluations, promotions, reenlistments, retention, awards and decorations,appearance, entitlements, fundraising, personnel assessment, retiree affairs, family matters, retire-ments, separations, personnel readiness and Air Force casualty reporting. Interfaces with AirNational Guard and Air Force Reserve personnel programs impacting the Total Air Force. 3.2.  Manages and operates Air Force civilian personnel data and information systems, career manage-ment, recruitment, development and placement programs. Implements and manages centralized AirForce civilian personnel processes that include external staffing (noncompetitive appointment author-ities and competitive case examining) and internal merit promotion program, civilian education anddevelopment, intern recruiting/development, career programs, official personnel folders and associ-ated processes, civilian benefits and entitlements, classification, personnel assessment programs,experience and education coding, the standard core personnel document library and permanentchange of station orders.  RICHARD E. BROWN III,   Lt General, USAF DCS/Personnel 