   BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 14 11 JULY 2017  AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION CENTER (AFOTEC)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  HQ USAF/TEP  Supersedes:  AFMD 14, 7 April 2006 SUMMARY OF CHANGES Certified by: HQ USAF/TE  (Mr. Devin L. Cate) Pages: 2  Updates Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD) 14, 7 April 2006 (Re-certified 22 October 13), to align  AFOTEC’s  responsibilities  with  updated  terminology  as  described  in  DODI  5000.02, Change 2, 2 February 2017.  1.  Mission.  As  the  Air  Force’s  Operational  Test  Agency  (OTA),  AFOTEC  evaluates  the capability of systems to meet warfighter needs by planning, executing, and reporting independent operational  assessments, tests,  and  evaluations.    From  concept development  to  system fielding, AFOTEC evaluates a system’s overall operational mission capability, under realistic conditions, as  determined  by  effectiveness,  suitability,  and  other  operational  considerations,  and  assesses operational impacts in future and current battlespace environments. 2.  Command.  AFOTEC: 2.1.  Is a direct reporting unit responsible to the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force (CSAF) as delegated by the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF). 2.2.  Executes policy from HQ USAF Director of Test and Evaluation. 2.3.  Is authorized direct communication concerning operational test and evaluation (OT&E) matters  between  the  AFOTEC  Commander,  other  USAF  major  commands  (MAJCOM), heads of DOD components, Service OTAs, and other government agencies.  2 AFMD14  11 JULY 2017 3.  Responsibilities.  The AFOTEC Commander: 3.1.  As an independent OTA, participates in the Air Force acquisition process without undue influence  by  development  agencies,  development  contractors,  users,  or  other  external agencies. 3.2.  Independently leads the planning,  execution, and reporting of operational  assessments, tests,  and  evaluations  on  Air  Force  acquisition  programs,  to  include  new  and  existing systems,  modification  programs,  commercial-off-the-shelf  items,  non-developmental  items, and tailored acquisitions, with consideration given to emergent joint service, allied, and other agency mission capabilities. 3.3.  Leads the personnel, facilities, property, and funds organic to  AFOTEC,  and exercises control of operational test events using personnel and resources allocated to AFOTEC. 3.4.  When  directed,  manages  and/or  participates  in  the  planning,  conduct,  and  reporting  of multi-Service, multi-agency, DOD, and Air Force operational test activities. 3.5.  Engages  in  early  and  continuous  involvement  with  the  acquisition  logistics  and  user communities  to  reduce  program  risk  and  deliver  mission  capable  systems  to  the  warfighter sooner and at reasonable cost.  Early involvement includes supporting operational capability requirements  development,  assisting  the  shaping  of  the  acquisition  strategy,  influencing system  design  and  development  by  providing  feedback,  and  appropriate  participation  in integrated T&E activities to ensure systems are ready for dedicated operational testing. the  formulation,  development, 3.6.  Supports  Air  Force  and demonstration,  and  assessment  of  concepts,  doctrines,  mission  needs,  and  requirements  for the development of new capabilities to support Joint Urgent Operational Needs (JUON) and Joint  Emergent  Operational  Needs  (JEON)  requirements,  and  joint  or  Service  technology experimentation. joint  warfighters in 3.7.  Provides  evaluation  of  a  system’s  overall  mission  capability  as  determined  by effectiveness,  suitability,  and  other  operational  considerations  to  assist  in  filling  warfighter capability gaps across the full range of Air Force and selected joint and allied initiatives. 3.8.  Provides OT&E information and expertise to MAJCOMs, other DOD components, Air National  Guard,  Air  Force  Reserve,  CSAF,  SECAF,  Combatant  Commands,  Office  of  the Secretary of Defense, Congress, and other government agencies.  STEPHEN W. WILSON General, USAF Vice Chief of Staff 