BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 16 26 JANUARY 2015 Personnel AIR FORCE MORTUARY AFFAIRS OPERATIONS (AFMAO)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1S   Certified by: AF/A1  (Mr. Robert E. Corsi, Jr.) Pages: 4   This directive states the mission, organizational relationships, and delegation of authority for the Air Force Mortuary Affairs operations (AFMAO) as an Air Force (AF) Field Operating Agency (FOA).  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the Publication OPR. Ensure that records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  In collaboration with the Chief of the Air Force Reserve (AF/RE), and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations.  This publication may not be supplemented.  1.  Mission.  AFMAO  executes  and  integrates  United  States  Air  Force  (USAF)  mortuary programs to care for fallen service members and their families while meeting field commanders’ needs, supporting both present and past conflicts.  In partnership with all Military Services, and on  the  behalf  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  in  accordance  with  DoDD  1300.22E, Mortuary  Affairs  Policy.    AFMAO  operates  and  maintains  a  port-of-entry  within  CONUS  in support of all the Military Services and serves as the Department of Defense’s component with operational  oversight  of  the  Dignified  Transfer  Process  and  related  Media  Access  Policy.  AFMAO is a Field Operating Agency of Headquarters Air Force. 2.  Organizational Relationships.  Department of Air Force/A1M 491t Subject:  Activation of the  Air  Force  Mortuary  Affairs  Operations,  Field  Operating  Agency,  dated  14  March  2014,   2  AFMD16  26 JANUARY 2015 designates AF/A1 to provide technical direction and guidance.  HAFMD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff  of  the  Air  Force,  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services,  designates  Director  of  Services (A1/A1S) as having responsibility for programs and policies, including mortuary affairs.    The AFMAO Commander reports directly to HQ AF/A1S, the Director, Air Force Services. 3.  Responsibilities.  AFMAO is specifically responsible for: 3.1.  In coordination with AF/A1S, executing mortuary policy by developing, coordinating, and  implementing  standards,  systems,  programs,  and  procedures  for  military  and  civilian mortuary  operations  as  well  providing  care,  service,  and  support  to  surviving  families pursuant to Title 10, United States Code, Sections 1482 and 1482a and Title 37 United States Code, Section 418f. 3.2.  Serving  as  the  DoD  component  for  Dignified  Transfers  and  related  media  policy  at Dover AFB, IAW DoDD 1300.22E. 3.3.  Immediately  reporting  incidents  involving  loss  of  accountability,  contaminated  or contagious remains, serious hazards to AFMAO personnel, explosive devices, or any other anomalies to AF/A1S. 3.4.  Working  closely  with  host  wing,  Armed  Forces  Medical  Examiner  System,  Joint Personal Effects Depot, all Military Services’ leadership, and union leadership to provide an environment of collaboration and cooperation. 3.5.  Providing subject matter expertise to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) and all Military Services’ mortuary affairs counterparts at the Central Joint Mortuary Affairs Board to further refine and codify mortuary guidance, training, practices, and procedures. 3.6.  Maintaining a self-inspection program in compliance with AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, to evaluate mission execution and ensure process standardization with 100 percent accountability of remains. 3.7.  Ensuring AFMAO  personnel  and facility  provide the mission capabilities to meet the mortuary  affairs  and  operational  mortuary  needs  of  the  Air  Force,  the  Department  of Defense, and other entitled personnel pursuant to governing rules and statutes. that  provides training  program licensed 3.7.1.  Maintaining  an  education  and professionals with the educational opportunities  and means necessary  to  maintain state licensure in compliance with statute. 3.7.2.  Identifying manpower and budgeting requirements as an element of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution process. 3.7.3.  In conjunction with AF/A1XR, ensure contingency plans are developed to respond to mass fatality incidents and capability is appropriately postured for wartime operational plans. 3.8.  Continuing  to  refine  and  codify  operating  instructions  to  ensure  consistency  of operations. 4.  Delegation of Authority.  Secretary of the Air Force Memorandum, Delegation of Authority to Expand Eligible Travelers to Attend Dignified Transfers, delegates the AFMAO Commander AFMD16  26 JANUARY 2015   3  to authorize travel beyond primary next of kin plus two for USAF families traveling to witness a Dignified Transfer.  This cannot be delegated further.  SAMUEL A. COX, Lt Gen, USAF Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services   4  AFMD16  26 JANUARY 2015 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  References  AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records AFI 36-8101, Total Force Human Resource Management (HRM) Domain Governance AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System DoDD 1300.22E, Mortuary Affairs Policy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, DOD Policy Regarding Media Access to Dignified  Transfers at Dover Air Force Base Secretary of the Air Force Memorandum, Delegation of Authority to Expand eligible Travelers  to Attend Dignified Transfers Department of Air Force/A1M 491t, Activation of the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations, Field Operating Agency HAFMD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel, and Services Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAO—Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction IAW—In Accordance With  