BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (USAF) AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 35 19 OCTOBER 2016 MISSION DIRECTIVE  AIR FORCE MEDICAL OPERATIONS AGENCY COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AFMOA/CSS  Supersedes:  AFMD 35, 10 June 2011  Certified by: AF/SG3/5  (Maj Gen Allen Roosevelt) Pages: 9    This  directive  states  the  mission,  defines  the  command  structure,  and  establishes  the responsibilities  of  the  Air  Force  Medical  Operations  Agency  (AFMOA)  as  an  Air  Force  Field Operating Agency (FOA) directly subordinate to the Surgeon General of the Air Force. It applies to  AFMOA. Refer recommended changes  and questions about  this publication to  the Office of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  appropriate  functional’s  chain  of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES Recent  changes  to  this  publication  include  revisions  to  reflect  changes  to  responsibilities assigned to the Medical Support, Medical Services, Nursing Services, Biomedical Sciences, and Analytics  directorates.  The  Medical  Support  directorate  is  no  longer  responsible  for  medical information management. The Medical Services directorate has reorganized into four divisions, moving  responsibilities  of  the  previous  Care  Coordination  Division  under  the  Clinical Operations Division and transferring Clinical and Business Analysis Division responsibilities to Medical  Support  and  AFMS  Analytics.  The  Nursing  Services  directorate  added  expanded  the Provision of Nursing Care Division responsibilities to include Ambulatory Surgical Centers and 2 AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 Specialty  Care  Clinics  and  Enlisted  Allergy  and  Immunization  Consultant  responsibilities.  The Biomedical Sciences directorate expanded to include the Optometry Branch and Department of Defense (DoD) Hearing Center of Excellence responsibilities. The Analytics directorate and its responsibilities were added. 1.  Mission.  AFMOA  supports  Air  Force  and  Joint  medical  missions  through  the  execution  of programs to enhance the health and performance of Airmen and members of other Department of Defense (DoD) Services through healthcare operations in Air Force Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs) and other Air Force medical units. AFMOA further supports these missions through the promotion  of  health  and  provision  of  healthcare  for  family  members  who  are  authorized  DoD healthcare beneficiaries. AFMOA is the Surgeon General’s primary focal point for execution and standardization  of  plans,  practices,  procedures  and  programs  in  planning,  budget  execution, logistics,  clinical  operations,  clinical  quality  management,  patient  safety,  family  advocacy,  and health  promotions  for  the  Air  Force  Medical  Service  (AFMS).  AFMOA  collects,  validates, analyzes  and  presents  data  to  users  at  every  level  of  the  AFMS  and  coordinates  healthcare performance and process improvement activities in support of the AFMS strategy, and monitors national healthcare performance measures, standards and benchmarks in coordination with, and while aligning our efforts with DoD, the MHS, the DHA and our sister services. 2.  Command. 2.1.  The  AFMOA  is  a  field  operating  agency  (FOA)  reporting  to  the  Air  Force  Surgeon General (AF/SG). 2.2.  The AFMOA Commander (CC): 2.2.1.  Is  responsible  to  the  Air  Force  Surgeon  General  (AF/SG)  for  administration, training and readiness of assigned forces. 2.2.2.  Provides  support  to  Headquarter  Air  Force  (HAF),  DoD,  major  commands (MAJCOMs),  Director  Reporting  Units  (DRUs)  and  FOAs,  AF  MTFs,  other  federal agencies  and  external  civilian  medical  and  research  organizations  on  behalf  of  AFMS interests. 2.2.3.  In coordination with the Medical Operations and Research Directorate (AF/SG3/5) and  the  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Resources  Directorate  (AF/SG1/8),  supports  and oversees execution of AF/SG guidance and programs. 2.2.4.  Commands assigned forces. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  The AFMOA/CC: 3.1.1.  Develops  plans,  practices  and  procedures  to  provide  a  fit  and  healthy  USAF fighting force. 3.1.2.  Directs  clinical  activities  necessary  to  meet  the  requirements  of  Congressionally mandated DoD health care benefit entitlements. 3.1.3.  Directs  clinical  quality  improvement,  patient  safety,  and  risk  management programs. AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 3 3.1.4.  Manages  the  allocation  and  utilization  of  manpower  and  funds  for  AF  MTFs  in accordance with programming and budgeting by the Manpower, Personnel and Resources Directorate (AF/SG1/8). 3.1.5.  Develops recommendations for the AF/SG in coordination with other directorates regarding  optimal  apportionment  of  resources  to  clinical  processes  to  meet  strategic priorities  pertaining to  readiness,  provision  of  quality  clinical  care  and  force development. 3.1.6.  Analyzes  healthcare  processes  in  the  interest  of  high  quality  and  safe  care, efficient  use  of  resources  and  clinical  currency  of  health  care  professionals.  Leads proposal  and  execution  of  AFMS  health  care  process  improvement  initiatives  as approved by the AF/SG. 3.1.7.  On behalf of the AF/SG, serves as the AFMS Services Designated Official (SDO) and oversees and supports efficient, effective AFMS contracting activities. 3.2.  Transformation  and  Change  Management  (CCO).  Supports  continuous  process improvement (CPI) programs at every level of the AFMS, in alignment with AFMS mission, vision and strategic priorities focusing on productivity and efficiency. Serves as domain lead under Trust Care. 3.3.  AFMS Analytics (SGW). 3.3.1.  Provides  centralized  analysis  of  clinical  and  business  data  in  support  of  AFMS Corporate  Structure  and  associated  strategic  priorities,  investments,  evidence-based medicine,  applied  health/outcomes  research,  evaluation  of  programs/costs,  performance management  and  improvement,  and  engagements  with  Line  of  the  AF,  Sister  Services, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress. 3.3.2.  Supports performance measurement, management and improvement in support of execution  of  AFMS  strategic  priorities  and  monitors  national  healthcare  performance measures, standards and benchmarks in coordination with, and while aligning our efforts with DoD, the MHS, the DHA and our sister services. 3.4.  Medical  Support  (SGA).  Provides  comprehensive  on-site  medical  support AFMOA/CC and resourcing and operational support throughout the AFMS. to 3.4.1.  Medical  Logistics  (SGAL).  Provides  policy,  procedure,  and  field  support  for medical logistics operations for all AFMS MTFs, both institutional and operational. 3.4.1.1.  Provides  life  cycle  management  support  for  all  medical  materiel  including acquisition  and  maintenance.  Executes  AFMS  strategy  for  medical  materiel procurement  that  supports  enterprise  materiel  standardization  and  maximizes electronic sourcing to ensure efficient use of available manpower. 3.4.1.2.  Supports  AFMOA/CC  SDO  contracting  oversight  activities,  including monthly  Program  Management  Review  and  Annual  Execution  Reports.  Provides AFMS  service  contract  oversight  and  support  for  both  central  contract  program managers and MTF Service Contract Managers (SCMs) to enable execution of AFMS contract  acquisitions  to  include  contract  surveillance.  Liaises  with  Air  Force 4 AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 Installation Contracting Agency (AFICA) and 773d Enterprise Sourcing Squadron to coordinate optimal contracting support and compliance. 3.4.1.3.  Provides  overall  logistics  policy,  procedures,  and  management  for  medical contingency  materiel  programs  including:  War  Reserve  Materiel  (WRM),  Medical Countermeasures-Chemical  Biological  Radiological  Nuclear  (MC-CBRN),  Patient Movement  Items  (PMI),  and  Pandemic  Influenza  (PI)  programs.  Provides  complete life  cycle  management  of  contingency  support  assemblages  in  conjunction  with  the Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsible Agency. 3.4.1.4.  Provides  oversight  to  all  AFMS  equipment  procurement  and  maintenance. Manages  funding,  execution,  budget  requirements,  and  procurement  for  medical investment  equipment.  Oversees  support  to  AFMS  medical  equipment  maintenance programs  to  ensure  medical  equipment  is  serviceable,  safe,  and  properly  configured to meet peacetime and wartime missions. 3.4.1.5.  Manages AFMOA facility space and infrastructure requirements. 3.4.1.6.  Serves  as  AFMS  link  to  Defense  Health  Agency  (DHA)  contracting  and logistics shared services support. 3.4.2.  Medical  Resource  Management  Division  (SGAR).  Provides  oversight,  execution and  tracking  of  all  aspects  of  the  AF/SG  budget  including  the  Defense  Health  Program (DHP), Line of the Air Force-funded and other associated medical appropriations. 3.4.2.1.  Resource Operations: provides operational support of the Uniform Business Office,  Medical  Expense  and  Performance  Reporting  System  (MEPRS)  &  Defense Medical  Human  Resources  System  internet  (DMHRSi),  Data  Quality,  and  Coding Programs.  Serves  as  the  primary  focal  point  for  tracking  Business  Office  functions across the AFMS. 3.4.2.2.  Budget Execution and Manpower Branch: serves as the implementation arm for  DHP  manpower  for  the  AFMS  programming  in  the  Program  Objective Memorandum (POM) Cycle for AFMS allocations (excluding HAF programs). 3.4.2.2.1.  Provides  Unit  Manpower  Document  (UMD)  management,  program analysis  and  in  conjunction  with  the  MTF  and  Geographically  Separated  Units (GSUs) in support of MAJCOM/SGs. 3.4.2.2.2.  Directs  and  oversees  the  execution  and  programming  Future  Year Defense  Plan  (FYDP)  by  maintaining  balanced  Program  Element  Codes  in  the year of execution and in the out years. 3.4.2.2.3.  Air  Reserve  Component  (ARC)  resources  are line  (non-DHP) authorizations and are managed by Air Force Reserve Command Surgeon General (AFRC/SG) in conjunction with AFRC Manpower and Personnel (A1) for the AF Reserve  and  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  Readiness  Center  for  all  ANG medical authorizations 3.4.3.  Health  Benefits  (SGAT):  Organized  by  TRICARE  Operations  Regions  (West, East  and  OCONUS)  and  Patient  Administration  functions  (Medical  Records,  Health Insurance Portability  and Accountability  Act  (HIPAA),  Integrated Disability Evaluation System  (IDES),  Electronic  Health  Record  (EHR)  transition  and  Access  to  Care)  to AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 5 synchronize health benefits support with the MTFs, Managed Care Support Contractors, TRICARE Regional/Area Offices, MAJCOMs and HAF staff. 3.4.3.1.  TRICARE East, West and OCONUS Region Branches oversee health plans management support of and communication with their respective TRICARE regional issues  to  MTFs,  MAJCOMs  and  the  HAF.  TRICARE  North  Region  and  TRICARE South Region will transition to TRICARE East under T2017. 3.4.3.2.  Medical  Records  Branch:  oversees  all  aspects  of  Medical  Records Management in support of MTFs, MAJCOMs and the HAF, to include the Air Force Service  Treatment  Record  Processing  Center  that  processes  all  Total  Force  medical records being sent to the Veterans Health Administration for Air Force members who retire or separate. 3.4.3.3.  HIPAA/IDES  Branch:  oversees  execution  aspects  of  HIPAA  and  IDES programs, while serving as the primary communication and information flow for Air Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC)  IDES  policy,  Physical  Evaluation  Board  Liaison Officer (PEBLO) management and HAF. 3.4.3.4.  EHR Branch: serves as a communication “help desk” function and liaison to DHA Health Information Technology in support of the AFMS’s transition to its new Electronic Health Record system. 3.4.3.5.  Access to Care Branch: serves as a functional consultant in the overlapping areas  of  TRICARE  Operations  and  Patient  Administration  (TOPA),  Analytics  and Group Practice Management. 3.4.4.  AFMOA/SGA  serves  as  the  liaison  with  MTF  Health  Information  Technology (HIT)  needs  in  coordination  with  the  Defense  Health  Agency  (DHA).  As  of  1  October 2014,  DHA  assumed  responsibility  for  AFMS  HIT  requirements  and  mission  support. Provides  day-to-day  Information  Technology  support  for  AFMOA  and  local  Air  Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA) personnel. 3.5.  Medical  Services  (SGH).  Responsible  for  oversight  of  and  direct  support  to  AFMS medical  operations. The  Directorate includes four divisions, all of which work closely with AFMS analytics to identify opportunities to improve the care we provide. 3.5.1.  Clinical  Operations  (SGHC).  Guides  the  execution  and  implementation  of  the following programs: 3.5.1.1.  Population  Health.  Supports  disease/condition-based  care  improvement efforts. 3.5.1.2.  Medical Management (MM). Supports case management (including care for wounded,  ill,  and  injured  (WII)  service  members),  disease  management  and utilization  management in order to  improve the effectiveness  and efficiency of  care. Also  supports  improving  utilization  of  the  MHS  Nurse  Advice  Line  (NAL),  secure messaging and other adjuncts to traditional in-office care delivery. 3.5.1.3.  Air Force Medical Home (AFMH). Supports efforts to implement, train and sustain  AFMH  within  all  primary  care  clinics  through  the  execution  of  PCMH attributes as defined by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and the Patient-Centered Primary Care Collaborative (PCPCC). 6 AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 3.5.1.4.  Group Practice Management (GPM): Supports MTF-level GPMs to improve access  and  referral  management;  develops  training;  incorporates  evidence-based practices  and  patient-centered  care  practices  (including  secure  messaging  and  NAL operations). 3.5.2.  Mental  Health  (SGHW).  Guides  the  execution  and  implementation  of  AFMS mental health policies and programs. 3.5.2.1.  Mental  Health  (MH)  Branch.  Enhances  the  capabilities  of  MH  staff  in providing  assessment,  education,  consultation,  and  treatment  services  to  the beneficiary population through a variety of evidence-based therapeutic modalities to enhance the health and readiness of the community. 3.5.2.2.  Alcohol  and  Drug  Abuse  Prevention  and  Treatment  (ADAPT).  Focuses  on promoting  readiness,  health,  and  wellness  through  the  prevention  and  treatment  of substance misuse and abuse and minimizing the negative consequences of substance misuse and abuse to the individual, family, and organization. 3.5.2.3.  Family  Advocacy  Program  (FAP).  Provides  services  to  prevent  family maltreatment, promote community health and resiliency, and treat victims. 3.5.2.4.  Exceptional  Family  Member  Program-Medical  (EFMP-M).  Identifies medical  and  educational  service  requirements  of  family  members  in  support  of Regular Air Force sponsor reassignment and overseas civilian employment. 3.5.2.5.  Policy  and  Program  Evaluation  (PPE).  Designs,  implements,  analyzes, oversees,  coordinates  and  manages  studies  of  effectiveness,  clinical  trials,  pilot programs, program evaluation, community surveys, and other special projects. 3.5.2.6.  Behavioral  Health  Optimization  Program  (BHOP).  Oversees  program execution allowing substantially increased access to timely behavioral health services among Regular Active Duty service members, retirees, and their family members. 3.5.2.7.  Automated  Neuropsychological  Assessment  Metrics  (ANAM).  Provides guidance,  support  and  training  to  the  Regular  Active  Duty,  Guard  and  Reserve proctors and providers on proper administration and evaluation of results. 3.5.3.  Provision of Medical Care (SGHM). Oversees the training, support and utilization of AF/SG consultants; provides clinical and business strategy consultation and products; partners  with  stakeholders  to  address  clinical  questions,  posture  capabilities  to  meet  in-garrison  and  expeditionary  requirements,  and  monitor  and  improve  specialty-specific clinical performance. 3.5.4.  Clinical Quality (SGHQ). Partners with stakeholders to execute policy supporting the delivery of high quality, reliable care (Trusted Care) with a focus on eliminating harm to patients and staff. 3.5.4.1.  Professional  Staff  Management.  Supports  risk  management,  credentialing, privileging, adverse actions and related activities at all levels of the AFMS. Mentors and supports Chiefs of the Medical Staff at all MTFs. 3.5.4.2.  Patient  Safety.  Supports  patient  safety  efforts  at  all  levels  of  the  AFMS. Develops and provides training for patient safety managers, as well as TeamSTEPPS AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 7 training for all MTF personnel. Oversees Medical Incident Investigations and assists MTFs conducting Root Cause Analyses. Provides weekly Patient Safety Minutes, as well  as  monthly  and  quarterly  summaries  of  key  safety  events.  Monitors  patient safety data in order to identify trends and opportunities for improvement. 3.5.4.3.  Customer  Satisfaction.  Provides  training  and  support  to  improve  customer satisfaction;  coordinates  with  AF/SG3/5  and  other  stakeholders  to  improve  patient and  staff  engagement.  Monitors  customer  satisfaction  data  in  order  to  identify opportunities for improvement. 3.5.4.4.  Compliance  and  Performance  Improvement.  Represents  the  AFMS  in discussions with  The Joint  Commission and other accrediting agencies.  Liaises with Air  Force  Inspection  Agency  to  share  trends  and  opportunities  for  improvement. Assists  MTFs  to  prepare  for  accreditation  visits  and  to  address  findings  from  these visits. 3.6.  Nursing Services (SGN). 3.6.1.  The  Nursing  Services  Directorate  is  responsible  for  the  execution  of  AF/SG policies  supporting  clinical  operations  and  AF  expeditionary  capabilities  and  is  the principle  consultant  to  the  AFMOA/CC  on  nursing  services.  In  conjunction  with AF/SG1/8  and  AF/SG3/5,  provides  input  on  AFMS  policy,  strategic  vision  and expeditionary  capabilities  for  senior  leaders.  Provides  guidance,  clinical  oversight  and reach-back support for AF MTF nursing operations via three divisions: 3.6.2.  Provision  of  Nursing  Care.  Consists  of  four  branches  which  provide  expert consultative  leadership  support  to  officer  and  enlisted  nursing  staff  for  AF  MTFs. Facilitates  policy  development  and  execution  to  ensure  compliance  with  national standards. 3.6.2.1.  Outpatient  Care  Branch:  Supports  all  clinical  nursing  operations  in  AFMS Primary  Care  Clinics,  Emergency  Departments,  Urgent  Care  Centers,  and  Flight Medicine Clinics. 3.6.2.2.  Inpatient Care Branch. 3.6.2.3.  Ambulatory Surgical Centers and Specialty Care Clinics Branch. 3.6.2.4.  Enlisted Allergy and Immunization Consultant: Partners with the Centers for Disease  Control  and  provides  vaccine  updates,  recommendations,  and  schedules  to AF MTFs. 3.6.3.  Nursing Service Resourcing. Helps guide decision makers on all issues related to AFMS nursing resources. 3.6.4.  Education  and  Training.  Directs,  manages  and  supports  programs  to  provide professional  and  career  development  to  AFMS  personnel;  serves  as  a  consultant  for AFMS nursing education/training and professional development issues; and manages On-the-Job  Training  responsibilities, the  Self-Aid/Buddy  Care,  Emergency  Medical Technician, life support and Unit Training Manager Programs, and formal course training quotas. 8 AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 3.7.  Biomedical  Sciences (SGB). Oversees execution of Biomedical  Sciences Corps (BSC) programs  through  three  divisions:  Air  Force  Blood  program,  Pharmacy  Operations  and Optometry Operations. Also oversees the Air Force Drug Testing Lab and the DoD Hearing Center of Excellence; serves as primary advisor to the AFMOA/CC on BSC matters. 3.7.1.  Air  Force  Blood  Program  (AFBP).  Conducts  planning,  coordinating,  budgeting and policy formation related to worldwide garrison and contingency blood support; acts on behalf of the AF/SG as the Food and Drug Administration license holder for the AF manufacture of blood  products; maintains an ongoing program  of quality  assurance and compliance  validation  of  AF  blood  manufacturing  and  transfusion  practices;  is responsible  for  performing  all  duties  needed  to  support  the  Air  Force’s  role  as  the  lead Service  for  the  two  Armed  Services  Whole  Blood  Processing  Laboratories,  which provide  CONUS  and  OCONUS  blood  trans-shipment  services  and  participates  in  the DoD  Frozen  Blood  Program  to  manufacture  and  distribute  contingency  stockpiles  of frozen red cells. 3.7.2.  Pharmacy  Operations.  Executes  AFMS  pharmacy  policies;  and  supports  AF pharmacy capabilities in collaboration with the Associate Chief for Pharmacy; and serves as the AFMS linkage to the DHA for shared services support. 3.7.3.  Optometry  Operations.  Executes  optometry  policies  and  supports  clinical operations across the AFMS, in collaboration with the Associate Corps Chief. 3.7.4.  Headquarters Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory (HQ AFDTL) is the drug testing portion of the AF Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) and reports directly to the AFMOA/CC; detects and deters illegal drug use by service members. 3.7.5.  Oversees the DoD Hearing Center of Excellence (HCE) which Congress mandated to  partner  with  the  Veterans  Administration  (VA)  and  other  appropriate  public  and private entities to heighten readiness and continuously improve the health and quality of life of service members and veterans through hearing-related programs. 3.8.  Dental Services (SGD). 3.8.1.  Provides input to AFMS policies and supports dental operations and execution of the Air  Force Dental Service (AFDS) strategic vision  and expeditionary  capabilities for the  AF/SG  and  the  AFMOA/CC.  Provides  guidance,  clinical  oversight  and  reach-back support through three divisions. Directs efficient and effective delivery of dental services and  resources,  Dental  Corps  and  4Y0  force  management,  and  education  and  training  to support  the  AFMS  dental  mission  and  its  Dental  Treatment  Facilities  (DTFs), MAJCOM/SG staffs and the AFMOA/CC. Provides advice and staff assistance to DTFs on clinical practice, clinic management and leadership development. Coordinates with the ANG Assistant and AFRC/SGD on ARC dental matters relating to the total force. 3.8.2.  Clinical  Dentistry.  Monitors  DTF  business  plan  performance  and  advises  on staffing  issues  (to  include  manning  assists)  and  performance  improvement  processes; disseminates  DTF  clinical  practice  policies;  monitors  Standards  of  Care,  safe  patient treatment and clinical pathways, and provides guidance on all aspects of dental practice management;  coordinates  release  of  Dental  Clinical  Practice  and  Dental  Infection Prevention and Control Guidelines revisions. AFMD 35  19 OCTOBER 2016 9 3.8.3.  Dental Support. Monitors and analyzes dental performance metrics; oversees data collection, surveys DTFs, and uses the information to participate in the POM build with the  Dental  Operations  Panel  to  coordinate  and  assist  in  the  validation  of  equipment unfunded requirements and monitor execution year funding. Addresses UMDs, contracts and  technology  integration  throughout  the  AFDS.  Monitors  private  sector  care  Active Duty Dental Plan (ADDP) utilization and leadership effectiveness. 3.8.4.  Dental  Training.  Provides  direct  support  and  communication  to  DTFs  for  formal AFDS courses, selection and coordination of education and training quotas (both officer and  enlisted)  and  dissemination  of  information  for  graduate  dental  education.  Oversees the  applications,  student  progress  and  assignment  coordination  for  the  Dental  Hygiene Training Scholarship program. 3.9.  Liaison  Officers  (LNO):  The  aeromedical  operations  and  Installation  Management Support Center LNOs serve as interfaces between AFMOA’s AFMS execution activities and SG3/5P  and  the  Air  Force  Installation  Management  Support  Center,  respectively,  to  ensure that execution of AF/SG’s strategic priorities, including Trusted Care and Air Force Medical Home, are synchronized to the greatest extent possible.  MARK A. EDIGER Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS Surgeon General 