BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 4 13 JULY 2017  AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND (AFMC)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e- Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  AF/A4P  Supersedes:  AFMD 4, 7 March 2013  Certified by: AF/A4  (Lt Gen John B. Cooper) Pages: 3    This  Directive  states  the  mission,  defines  the  command  structure,  and  establishes  the responsibilities  for  Air  Force  Materiel  Command.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  field  units  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  updates    the    mission    statement,  AFMC  forces,    and    the  AFMC  Commander’s responsibilities. 1.  Mission.  Deliver and support agile war-winning capabilities. 2.  Command.  The Commander, Air Force Materiel Command: 2.1.  Is  responsible  to  the  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  United  States  Air  Force  for  administration, training, and readiness of assigned forces. 2.2.  Exercises administrative control over assigned and attached forces. 2.3.  Commands and exercises control of the Air Force Major Command (MAJCOM) 2 AFMD4  13 JULY 2017 2.4.  That provides installation and mission support to Air Force Commanders world-wide, as well  as  delivers  and  supports  weapons  systems  and  equipment  for  Air  Force  operational commands, joint forces, and  international partners. 2.5.  Commands the forces of the: 2.5.1.  Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), whose mission is documented in AFMC Mission Directive 420. 2.5.2.  Air Force Test  Center (AFTC), whose mission is  documented in  AFMC Mission Directive 404. 2.5.3.  Air  Force  Life  Cycle  Management  Center  (AFLCMC),  whose  mission  is documented in AFMC Mission Directive 411. 2.5.4.  Air  Force  Sustainment  Center  (AFSC),  whose  mission  is  documented  in  AFMC Mission Directive 406. 2.5.5.  Air  Force  Installation  and  Mission  Support  Center  (AFIMSC),  whose  mission  is documented in HQ USAF Program Action Directive (PAD) 14-04 since AFIMSC is still in development. Once all PAD items have been completed and closed, an AFMC Mission Directive will be published and this item will be updated. 2.5.6.  National  Museum  of  the  United  States  Air  Force  (NMUSAF),  whose  mission  is documented in AFMC Mission Directive 417. 2.5.7.  Air  Force  Nuclear  Weapons  Center  (AFNWC),  whose  mission  is  documented  in AFMC Mission Directive 421. 3.  Responsibilities.  The Commander, Air Force Materiel Command: 3.1.  Serves as the Agile Combat Support core function lead (CFL) for the Air Force. 3.2.  Provides integrated life cycle management support to the Air Force. 3.3.  Provides  research,  discovery,  development,  acquisition,  exportability  considerations, testing, and evaluation of weapons systems and information technology for new warfighting capabilities, and sustainment and/or upgrades to existing capabilities and support for fielded systems. 3.4.  Provides  and  oversees  depot  repair,  supply,  and  distribution  processes  to  support  the fielding  and  sustainment  of  robust  systems  and  manages  the  disposal  and/or  storage  of obsolete or retired systems for potential future use. 3.5.  Provides  centralized  business  and  financial  management  for  the  General  Support Division,  Consolidated  Sustainment  Activity  Group-Supply  Division  and  Consolidated Sustainment  Activity  Group-Maintenance  Division  activities  of  the  Air  Force  Working Capital Funds. 3.6.  Provides  the  single  intermediate  level  organization  for  providing  installation  and mission  support  capabilities  to  MAJCOMs  and  installations  by  centralizing  specified installation and expeditionary support activities and funds. 3.7.  Organizes, trains, and equips AFMC assigned in-place and deployable forces to support peacetime operations and worldwide contingencies. AFMD4  13 JULY 2017 3 3.8.  Supports  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Acquisition,  Technology,  and Logistics,  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Installations,  Environment,  and Energy,  and  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Logistics,  Engineering,  and  Force  Protection  in implementing and maintaining policy. 3.9.  Provides  funding,  manpower,  logistical,  and  administrative  support  to  the  National Museum of the USAF for annual operations, security, education programs, construction and sustainment of facilities, and management of the National Historical Collection of the USAF. 3.10.  Delivers  quality  solutions  to  sustain,  recapitalize,  and  modernize  nuclear  warfighting capabilities  and  to  ensure  safe,  secure,  and  effective  nuclear  weapons  and  related  nuclear certified  systems  in  support  of  the  President,  as  well  as  supporting  warfighter  operational objectives. 3.11.  Implements  Centralized  Asset  Management  (CAM)  processes  on  behalf  of  the  Air Force enterprise to optimize warfighting capability.  STEPHEN W. WILSON General, USAF Vice Chief of Staff 