BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 51-6 13 NOVEMBER 2015 Law COMMAND AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AF/JAA  Supersedes:  AFPD 51-6, 18 October 1993  Certified by: AF/JA  (Lt Gen Christopher F. Burne) Pages: 7  This directive implements title 10, United States Code (USC), section 8074 (10 USC § 8074) and Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (AFMD)  1,  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF).    It  applies  to  service members  and  organizations  in  the  Regular  Air  Force,  Air  Force  Reserve,  and  Air  National Guard.  It applies to Civil Air Patrol (CAP) United States Air Force (USAF); but, does not apply to the CAP, the volunteer civilian auxiliary of the United States Air Force.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this directive to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the field through intermediate legal offices.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include changing the title;  specifying command  appointment authorities and clearly delineating the  chain  of  command  (para  3.0);  deleting  measures  of  compliance;  and  adding  a  Glossary  of References and Supporting Information as a new Attachment 1. 1.  Policy. 2 AFPD 15-6  13 NOVEMBER 2015 1.1.  This  directive  establishes  Air  Force  policy  and  assigns  responsibilities  for  command consistent  with  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  5100.01,  Functions  of  the Department of Defense and Its Major Components; Joint Publication (JP) 1, Doctrine for the Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States;  and  AFMD  1.    This  directive  establishes  policy  and assigns responsibilities for ensuring due process during administrative proceedings before a board of officers.   1.2.  This  directive  also  establishes  policy  and  assigns  responsibilities  for  accepting  gifts  to the  Air  Force.    As  an  organization  comprised  of  personnel  committed  to  defending  the  US Constitution, the Department of the Air Force (hereinafter referred to as the Air Force) bears the responsibility of maintaining public trust and confidence through its adherence to the rule of  law.    Air  Force  compliance  with  civil  legal  authority  ensures  due  process  and  promotes efficiency.  2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 2.1.  As  the  head  of  the  Air  Force  subject  to  the  direction  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense (SecDef) and to the provisions of 10 USC Chapter 6, the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) is responsible for and has the authority necessary to conduct all affairs of the Air Force. 2.2.  SecAF  may  accept  gifts  of  personal  property  and  real  property,  pursuant  to  10  USC  § 2601 and other applicable statutes, and must ensure the proper accounting, safeguarding, and use  of  such  gifts.    Although  the  receipt  of  such  gifts  may  be  acknowledged  in  a  thankful manner, no arrangements will be made granting special favors to the donor and care must be taken to avoid providing a response that contains an endorsement of the donor.  SecAF may delegate this authority to Air Force officials, subject to any limitations prescribed by law or other competent authority.   2.3.  The  Judge  Advocate  General  (AF/JA),  in  coordination  with  the  Air  Force  General Counsel  (SAF/GC)  as  appropriate,  is  responsible  for  interpreting  and  issuing  implementing instructions for this directive. 3.  Command. 3.1.  Command is central to all military action and unity of command is fundamental to the optimal employment of all forces under a single responsible commander.   3.2.  The  President  and  SecDef  exercise  authority,  direction,  and  control  of  the  Air  Force through two distinct branches of the chain of command.   3.2.1.  The  operational  branch  runs  from  the  President,  through  SecDef,  to  the commanders  of  combatant  commands  for  missions  and  forces  assigned  or  attached  to their commands.  This branch is described in 10 USC § 164 and JP 1. 3.2.2.  For purposes other than operational direction of forces assigned to the combatant commands,  the  chain  of  command  runs  from  the  President  to  SecDef  to  SecAF  (as outlined in 10 USC § 8013, 10 USC § 8074, and AFMD 1), and thereafter, as prescribed by  SecAF  in  this  directive  and  its  implementing  instructions.    SecAF  has  shared administrative  command  and  control  with  the  combatant  commander  over  Air  Force forces assigned or attached to combatant commands.   3.3.  The  chain  of  command  within  the  Air  Force  typically  runs  from  SecAF  to MAJCOM/CCs  and  from  MAJCOM/CCs  to  their  subordinate  commanders.    SecAF  should AFPD 15-6  13 NOVEMBER 2015 3 normally exercise this command authority over Airmen through the Chief of Staff of the Air Force  (CSAF).    Thus,  all  communications  to  SecAF  pertaining  to  command  matters  will normally be coordinated through CSAF. 3.3.1.  While  holding  office,  CSAF  outranks  all  other  Air  Force  officers  but  is  not  a commander.    CSAF  may  exercise  supervisory  authority  over  all  members  of  the  Air Force as prescribed by SecAF.  However, if the Chairman and/or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is an Air Force officer, CSAF does not exercise any authority over them. 3.3.2.  SecAF  has  direct  command  authority  over  CSAF,  all  Air  Force  major  command (MAJCOM)  commanders;  the  Commander  of  the  Air  Force  District  of  Washington (AFDW/CC) and all Air Force lieutenant generals and generals who are not assigned to a MAJCOM or a combatant commander.  3.3.2.1.  All  taskings  from  the  Secretariat  to  the  Air  Staff  normally  should  be coordinated through CSAF.   3.4.  The CSAF, Vice Chief of Staff, Assistant Vice Chief of Staff, Deputy Chiefs of Staff, Assistant Chiefs of Staff, other heads (military or civilian) of Air Staff “two-letter” offices or other  staff  agencies,  and  civilian  leaders  and  military  officers  within  the  Office  of  the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  the  Office  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  and  the  Office  of  the Secretary  of  Defense  are  not  commanders.    However,  as  senior  leaders,  senior  staff,  and supervisors, these directors and officers are authorized to perform functions identified in Air Force  policy  as  requiring  action  by  the  respective  unit  commander  (e.g.,  squadron-level commander or civilian equivalent), as long as those actions are not reserved specifically to a “commander”  by  law  (e.g.,  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  [UCMJ])  or  controlling superior legal authority (e.g., DoD guidance).   3.5.  SecAF  delegates  to  the  following  personnel  the  authority  to  appoint  an  officer  to command in the Air Force as described below: 3.5.1.  CSAF  and  the  Vice  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  may  appoint  officers  to  all command positions in the Air Force;  3.5.2.  Deputy Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force and other Air Staff Office Chiefs for field operating agencies (FOA) under their supervision; 3.5.3.  The  military  deputies  to  the  Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force may appoint commanders of FOAs under their supervision; 3.5.4.  The Inspector General (SAF/IG) for organizations under SAF/IG’s supervision; 3.5.5.  The  Surgeon  General  (AF/SG)  for  medical  organizations  under  AF/SG’s supervision; 3.5.6.  The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) for the Air Force Legal Operations Agency; 3.5.7.  AFDW/CC  for  all  organizations  under  AFDW’s  command  and  all  organizations authorized to have a commander, that are not otherwise addressed in paragraphs 3.5.2 to 3.5.6.;  3.5.8.  The Senior Air Force Officer (SAFO), or Air Force officer appointed to command the  Air  Force  component  if  not  the  SAFO,  in  a  unified  command,  joint  task  force, 4 AFPD 15-6  13 NOVEMBER 2015 combined  task  force,  coalition  force,  or  activity  or  agency  outside  the  Air  Force  may appoint  the  Air  Force  commander  of  a  subordinate  Air Force  component  command  or section commander for the section(s) falling within the SAFO’s or commander’s area of responsibility; and 3.5.9.  The  Commander  of  Air  Force  Forces  (COMAFFOR),  to  appoint  commanders  of Air Force organizations operating under his or her command authority. 3.6.  The  delegated  appointment  authorities  listed  in  paragraph  3.5  may  be  redelegated  to subordinate commanders and staff officers. 3.7.  Commanders may appoint commanders of subordinate units under their command. 3.8.  Assumption  of  command.    When  not  otherwise  prohibited  by  superior  competent authority  via  an  existing  appointment  to  command  order  or  otherwise  and  when  a commander  ceases  to  be  “present  for  duty”  or  is  permanently  unavailable,  relieved  from duty,  missing,  dead,  or  otherwise  unable  to  carry  out  the  incidents  and  responsibilities  of command, then command of a unit, including an Air Force Element, shall pass to the SAFO assigned  to  an  organization  who  is  present  for  duty  and  eligible  to  command.    In  this circumstance, the SAFO shall be said to have assumed command.  The authority to assume command is inherent in the SAFO’s status as the senior Air Force officer in both grade and rank.  An exception to this rule rests in detachments and sections:  an officer cannot assume command  of  a  detachment  or  a  section;  commanders  of  detachments  and  sections  must  be appointed. 3.9.  IAW 10 USC § 8074, only commissioned Air Force officers may exercise command of an Air Force organization;  civilians and enlisted members may not  exercise command.  An officer may not command another officer of higher grade 3.10.  Air  Force  District  of  Washington.    SecAF  delegates  authority  to  the  AFDW/CC  to exercise  general,  special,  and  summary  court-martial  convening  authority;  actions  under Article  15,  UCMJ;  administrative  actions;  and  other  actions  requiring  command  authority over the Air Force members identified in the following subparagraphs, as needed. 3.10.1.  Air Force members assigned, attached, or on temporary duty with:  3.10.1.1.  Headquarters  Air  Force  (the  Secretariat  and  the  Air  Staff),  per  10  USC chapters 803 and 805; 3.10.1.2.  Headquarters  Army  (the  Secretariat  and  the  Army  Staff),  per  10  USC chapters 303 and 305; 3.10.1.3.  Headquarters  Navy  (the  Secretariat,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Naval Operations, the Bureaus, and the Office of the Judge Advocate General), per 10 USC chapter 503, 505, and 513; 3.10.1.4.  Headquarters Marine Corps, per 10 USC chapter 506; 3.10.1.5.  The Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; 3.10.1.6.  The Office of the Secretary of Defense; and 3.10.1.7.  Organizations  that  are  not  subordinate  to  a  MAJCOM  and  that  are  not located on a military installation with an Air Force commander authorized to exercise AFPD 15-6  13 NOVEMBER 2015 5 general  or  special  court-martial  convening  authority.    Such  organizations  may include,  but  are  not  limited  to  Air  Force  FOAs;  Air  Force  direct  reporting  units (DRU);  and  Air  Force  Elements  of  DoD  activities,  DoD  field  agencies,  and  other departments and agencies of the United States Government.   3.10.2.  Inmates,  parolees,  and  members  on  appellate  leave  assigned  to  the  Air  Force Security  Forces  Center,  Corrections  Division,  are  attached  to  the  AFDW  and  its appropriate  subordinate  commands  for  the  exercise  of  general,  special  and  summary court-martial convening authority. 3.10.3.  Air  Force  members  assigned  to  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  and stationed in Europe are attached to United State Air Forces Europe (USAFE) for general, special and summary court-martial convening authority; actions under Article 15, UCMJ; administrative actions, and other actions requiring command authority. 3.10.4.  The authorities delegated to AFDW/CC, may be further delegated. 3.10.5.  As used in paragraph 3.10., the term “Air Force members” includes: 3.10.5.1.  Members of the Regular Component of the Air Force; and 3.10.5.2.  Members  of  the  Air  Reserve  Component  (Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air National Guard) when subject to the UCMJ in accordance with 10 USC § 802.  3.10.5.3.  EXCEPTION:    Command  authority  affecting  officers  who  are  senior  in grade to AFDW/CC, is reserved to SecAF. 4.  Administrative  Proceedings.  The  Air  Force  will  ensure  that  respondents  entitled  to administrative  proceedings  before  a  board  of  officers  are  afforded  a  full,  fair,  and  impartial hearing.     Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force 6 AFPD 15-6  13 NOVEMBER 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References  10 USC § 164  10 USC chapters 303 and 305 10 USC chapter 503, 505, 506, and 513 10 USC § 802 10 USC chapters 803 and 805 10 USC § 2601 10 USC § 8013 10 USC § 8074 AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force (HAF), 8 April 2011 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 May 2008, incorporating Change 1, 28 January 2015, certified current 9 April 2015 DoDD 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components, 21 December 2010 JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 25 March 2013  AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011, incorporating changes through AFGM2.2, 21 April 2015 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  AFDW—Air Force District of Washington AFI—Air Force Instruction  AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System CAP—Civil Air Patrol COMAFFOR—Commander, Air Force Forces CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force DoDD—Department of Defense Directive AFPD 15-6  13 NOVEMBER 2015 7 DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency IAW—In Accordance With JP—Joint Publication MAJCOM—Major Command  NAF—Numbered Air Force OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAFO—Senior Air Force Officer SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SecDef—Secretary of Defense UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice USC—United States Code USAF—United States Air Force USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe Terms Air  Force  Element:—The  nomenclature  used  to  account  for  manpower  authorizations  and  to identify Air  Force personnel  on duty with organizations outside the Air Force, such  as defense agencies,  defense  field  activities,  sister  services,  and  Air  National  Guard  units  not  in  federal service.  Although not a unit for organizational purposes, an Air Force Element may function as a unit if so designated by competent authority.  (AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization) Commander:—A  commissioned  officer  who,  by  virtue  of  rank  and  assignment,  exercises command  authority  over  a  military  organization  or  prescribed  territorial  area,  which  under pertinent  official  directives  is  recognized  as  a  “command.”    This  designation  is  used  in  all  Air Force  organizations  authorized  to  be  led  by  a  commander  except  the  US  Air  Force  Academy, which  is  commanded  by  a  superintendent,  and  school/academic  organizations,  which  may  be commanded by commandants. Unit:—A military organization constituted by directives issued by HAF.  A unit is either named or  numbered.    Air  Force  units  include  MAJCOMs,  NAFs,  wings,  groups,  squadrons,  centers, DRUs,  FOAs,  and  provisional  units.    See  AFI  38-101.    They  also  include  deployable  units formed  from  air  expeditionary  forces  (AEFs),  such  as  air  expeditionary  wings,  groups  or squadrons, attached to an Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force or an in-place NAF that has been directed by a MAJCOM to support a joint force commander.  A duly constituted unit will have a civilian director or a commander who has assumed or been appointed to command.  For purposes of this directive, the term “unit” will include those non-units identified in AFI 38-101 as  being  authorized  to  have  a  commander,  such  as  sections,  detachments,  and  Air  Force Elements.  