BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 91-4 31 AUGUST 2017 Safety DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPONS SAFETY     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AFSC/SEWN  Supersedes:  AFPD 91-4, 21 October 2011  Certified by: AF/SE  (Maj Gen Andrew M. Mueller) Pages: 6 This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) establishes Air Force directed energy weapons (DEW) safety  policy.  DEW  provide  unprecedented  capabilities  and  produce  a  broad  spectrum  of hazards.  These hazards require specific safety measures to prevent DEW mishaps. This AFPD interfaces with and is consistent with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3200.19, Non-Lethal Weapons (NLW) Human Effects Characterization; DoDI 3222.03,  DoD Electromagnetic Environmental  Effects  (E3);  DoDI  5000.69,  DoD  Joint  Services  Weapon  and  Laser  System Safety Review Processes; DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH); DoDI 6055.11,  Protecting  Personnel  from  Electromagnetic  Fields;  6055.15,  DoD  Laser  Protection Program; AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise; and AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management.  This publication applies to Air Force, Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) units.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with  (IAW) Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System  (AFRIMS).    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional’s  chain  of command.  This publication may not be supplemented. 2 AFPD91-4  31 AUGUST 2017 SUMMARY OF CHANGES Added roles and responsibilities for AF/TE.  Updated responsibilities of various organizations at Air  Staff  level  and  below.    Added  references  to  various  DoD  and  AF  publications  and instructions that are consistent with this publication.    Updated formatting. 1.  Overview 1.1.  The Air Force will ensure DEW receive treatment distinct from conventional or nuclear weapons  because  of  their  characteristics,  which  may  include  speed-of-light  delivery,  range, and varied weapons effects.  DEW require a scalable approach to safety that is commensurate with the hazard potential of each weapon. 1.1.1.  A  DEW  is  a  system  using  a  beam  of  concentrated  electromagnetic  energy (including  but  not  limited  to  lasers  and  high  power  microwave  systems),  or  atomic  or subatomic  particles  primarily  as  a  direct  means  to  kill,  injure,  disable,  or  temporarily incapacitate people or destroy, damage or temporarily incapacitate property or materiel. 1.1.2.  Acoustic  weapons  use  sound  across  the  entire  frequency  spectrum  to  kill,  injure, disable, or temporarily incapacitate people.  Acoustic weapons, although outside the Joint definition of DEW, have effects and hazards more similar to DEW than to conventional weapons.  Acoustic weapons will follow the same safety policy as DEW. 1.2.  The Air Force will ensure protection of personnel, property, operational capability and the  environment  from  undue  risk  of  damage  or  harm  from  DEW,  consistent  with  mission requirements. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  The Air Force Shall: 2.2.  Establish and conduct a DEW Safety Program to ensure the safe research, development, testing,  operation,  training,  maintenance,  storage,  decommissioning,  and  disposal  of  these systems.    As  an  element  of  this  program,  the  Air  Force  will  determine  the  applicability  of Department  of  Defense  (DoD),  federal,  state,  and  local  laws  and  regulations,  international law and host nation laws, as well as the utility of advisory standards developed or adopted by national or international scientific safety organizations. 2.3.  Establish  and  conduct  a  safety  certification  process  for  DEW  systems.    DEW  systems must  have  a  safety  certification  from  The  Air  Force  Chief  of  Safety  (AF/SE)  prior  to operational testing, training, or operation by AF personnel. 2.4.  Investigate  mishaps  involving  DEW  IAW  AFPD  91-2,  Safety  Programs,  and  other directives as appropriate. 3.  Responsibilities and Authorities: 3.1.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Installations,  Environment  and  Energy (SAF/IE) is responsible for safety and occupational health policy for DEW. 3.2.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Acquisition  (SAF/AQ)  is  responsible  for ensuring inclusion of DEW safety requirements in  acquisition policy.  SAF/AQ will ensure the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) evaluates effects of DEW on human targets. AFPD91-4  31 AUGUST 2017 3 3.3.  The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) is responsible for developing DEW safety policy and procedural  guidance.  AF/SE is  responsible for ensuring compliance  with  safety policy and  for  developing  and  maintaining  instructions  to  implement  this  directive,  and  is  the certification  authority  for  DEW  safety. the utility/applicability  of  advisory  standards  developed  or  adopted  by  national  or  international scientific  safety  organizations.    AF/SE  is  responsible  for  establishing  DEW  testing  and employment proximity restrictions pertaining to nuclear and conventional weapons. is  responsible   AF/SE to  determine 3.4.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) issues directive policy for the protection of Air Force  personnel  and  the  general  public  from  overexposure  to  noise,  nonionizing  radiation, and  ionizing  radiation  IAW  AFPD  48-1,  Aerospace  Medicine  Enterprise.”    AF/SG  policy includes  completing  health  risk  assessments,  recommending  health  risk  controls, documenting human exposure, identifying medical monitoring requirements, and identifying diagnostic and therapeutic modalities for injuries and diseases related to DEW operations. 3.5.  The Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) provides direction and guidance to ensure test organizations assess safety standards and hazards prior to testing. 3.6.  At an early stage of the acquisition process, or a modification of an existing weapon, the Judge Advocate General (AF/JA), or the General Counsel (SAF/GC) for a weapon developed within a Special Access Program, will ensure that a weapon legal review is completed for all DEW  and  that  any  such  weapon  complies  with  DoD  regulations  and  domestic  and international law IAW AFI 51-402, Legal Reviews of Weapons and Cyber Capabilities. 3.7.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Operations  (AF/A3)  is  responsible  for  ensuring  DEW safety requirements are implemented in range operations policy. 3.8.  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs)  are  responsible  for  advocating  developmental  and operational  testing  of  DEW  systems  IAW  AFI  99-103,  Capabilities-Based  Test  and Evaluation.    Further,  each  MAJCOM  utilizing  or  having  Research,  Development,  Test  and Evaluation  (RDT&E)  responsibilities  for  DEW  is  responsible  for  advocating  funding, RDT&E,  and  manpower  to  ensure  sufficient  resources  are  available  to  develop  and implement the DEW Safety Program. 3.9.  AFMC/CC  is  responsible  for  supporting  development  of  safe  DEW,  evaluating  the human  target  effects  of  DEW  in  concert  with  data  produced  by  AFRL,  and  conducting medical  and  health  effects  consulting,  education  and  training.    IAW  AFI  48-109, Electromagnetic Field Radiation (EMFR) Occupational and Environmental Health Program, and  AFI  48-139,  Laser  and  Optical  Radiation  Protection  Program,  AFMC/CC  shall  also administer and maintain  the DoD EMF  Injury Hotline and Tri-Service Laser Injury Hotline to provide immediate expert medical advice in the event of an injury or suspected injury to DoD personnel from EMF and lasers.  AFMC/CC shall further administer and maintain the EMF  Overexposure  Repository  for  DoD  Components  to  access,  analyze,  and  use  in  EMF protection programs. 3.10.  AETC/CC  is  responsible  for  developing  directed  energy  curricula  and  providing training and education to satisfy career field requirements. 3.11.  Commanders  at  all  levels  with  a  mission  incorporating  DEW  are  responsible  for understanding the capabilities and hazards of DEW systems. Commanders must incorporate 4 AFPD91-4  31 AUGUST 2017 DEW safety and health considerations, consistent with applicable test, training or operational requirements, in their mission planning, decisions and operations. 3.11.1.  Outside the United States, its territories or possessions, MAJCOM and Numbered Air  Force  (NAF)  commanders  must  be  aware  of  safe-use  requirements  and  applicable host nation laws and advise subordinate commanders. 3.11.2.  Before  fielding  any  DEW,  MAJCOM,  NAF,  and  subordinate  echelon Commanders will coordinate their proposed concept of employment with their staff judge advocate  (SJA)  for  a  legal  review  to  ensure  compliance  with  DoD  regulations  and domestic and international law. 4.  Implementation Limitations 4.1.  MAJCOMs,  Field  Operating  Agencies,  and  Direct  Reporting  Units,  if  applicable,  will not issue instructions that implement this policy directive without AF/SE approval.  Heather Wilson Secretary of the Air Force AFPD91-4  31 AUGUST 2017 5 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 3200.19, Non-Lethal Weapons (N LW) Human Effects Characterization, 17 May 2012 DoDI 3222.03, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program, 25 August 2014 DoDI 5000.69, DoD Joint Services Weapon and Laser System Safety Review Processes, 9 November 2011 DoDI 6055.01, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 14 October 2014 DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH), 11 November 2008 DoDI 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program, 15 December 2008 DoDI 6055.11, Protecting Personnel from Electromagnetic Fields, 19 August 2009 DoDI 6055.15, DoD Laser Protection Program, 4 May 2007 AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011 AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 2 February 2012 AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 July 2012 AFI 48-109, Electromagnetic Field Radiation (EMFR) Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 1 August 2014 AFI 48-139, Laser and Optical Radiation Protection Program, 30 September 2014 AFI 51-402, Legal Reviews of Weapons and Cyber Capabilities, 27 July 2011 AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013 Adopted Form AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Records AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory ANG—Air National Guard 6 AFPD91-4  31 AUGUST 2017 DEW—Directed Energy Weapon(s) DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction EMF—Electromagnetic Field IAW—In Accordance With MAJCOM—Major Command NAF—Numbered Air Force OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility SJA—Staff Judge Advocate RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation SOH—Safety and Occupational Health  