BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-17 18 NOVEMBER 2016 Special Management ENERGY AND WATER MANAGEMENT  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the  e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/IEN  Supersedes:  AFPD90-17, 29 November 2011  Certified by: SAF/IE  (Ms. Miranda Ballentine) Pages: 10    This Directive establishes the framework for energy management within the Air Force; the Air Force energy management program addresses the use, conservation, and security of energy and water  across  all  Air  Force  missions.  It  implements  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Directive (DoDD) 4180.01, Energy Policy; DoDD 5134.15, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy  Plans  and  Programs;  and  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  4170.11,  Installation  Energy Management.  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  90-17  also  interfaces  with  policy  and responsibilities found in AFPD 23-2, Management of US Air Force Bulk Petroleum and Related Products;  and  DoDI  4140.25,  DoD  Management  Policy  for  Energy  Commodities  and  Related Services, as they relate to energy management. This AFPD applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, including all Air Force Reserve units and the Air National Guard (ANG). This publication will be applied to  contractors or other persons through the contract  or other legally binding  agreement  with  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  The  use  of  the  name  or  mark  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product, commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply  endorsement  by  the  Air  Force.  Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. 2 AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document incorporates new DoD policies identified in DoDD 4180.01; removes references to  cancelled  issuances,  including  DoDI  4170.10,  Energy  Management  Policy;  and  realigns responsibilities IAW with the 2014 Air Force reorganization. 1.  Overview:  This Policy Directive: 1.1.  Establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for management of the Air Force energy program. 1.2.  Addresses  activities  and  processes  throughout  the  Air  Force  that  require  energy.  This includes:  infrastructure,  aviation,  ground  vehicle  and  equipment  operations,  as  well  as science  and  technology  initiatives  with  potential  energy  impacts.  These  activities  and processes can occur at enduring and non-enduring locations. 1.3.  Institutes  the  overarching  approach  that  energy  projects  should  enhance  mission assurance  through  energy  assurance,  with  a  focus  on  improving  resiliency,  promoting  cost-competitiveness, and being cleaner than alternatives. 2.  Policy.  The Air Force will: 2.1.  Comply  with  all  higher-level  energy-related  laws  and  policies,  to  include  Executive Orders  and  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD)  directives  and  instructions,  as appropriate and without impacting mission execution. 2.2.  Implement  DoD  energy  strategies,  policies,  and  operational  energy  certification requirements,  and  budget  for  energy  programs  and  projects  consistent  with  DoD  and  Air Force requirements and priorities. 2.3.  Utilize accepted voluntary consensus and industry standards related to energy and water, unless the standard would result in a potential negative mission impact. 2.4.  Develop and maintain an overall approach to energy management that identifies, plans, and implements improvements in the way the Air Force uses energy within every Air Force functional area. 2.5.  Consider  energy  security  improvements,  efficiencies,  and  capabilities  as  a  factor  in requirements identification and budget development, and provide favorable consideration to projects that improve energy resilience for assets critical to mission accomplishment. 2.6.  Be able to power any infrastructure identified as critical to the performance of mission essential functions independent of the utility grid for the period of time needed to relocate the mission or for at least seven days, whichever is longer. 2.7.  Maximize  the  use  of  energy  efficient  technologies  and  processes  within  Air  Force mission, technical, and financial constraints. 2.8.  Balance  the  objectives  of  Air  Force  energy  projects  to  optimize  cost  and  provide resilient, cleaner sources of energy to enhance mission assurance through energy assurance, with an increased focus on meeting multiple objectives within single projects. AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 3 2.9.  Improve  the  energy  performance  of  weapons  systems,  platforms,  equipment,  and products;  installations,  to  include  both  enduring  and  non-enduring  locations;  and  military forces consistent with statutory, Executive Order, DoD, and Air Force requirements. 2.10.  Develop  and  acquire  equipment  and development processes that improve energy performance or increase energy security. technologies through the  research  and 2.11.  Install and use enterprise-wide energy data collection and management systems on Air Force  installations  to  facilitate  efforts  to  reduce  energy  consumption,  improve  operations, and  achieve  greater  energy  effectiveness  through  energy  consumption  management.  When implementing  based  on  these  parameters,  the  data  collection  and  management  system  must be  approved  and  managed  as  a  network  service  IAW  AFI  33-115,  Air  Force  Information Technology (IT) Service Management. 2.12.  Diversify  energy  supplies  and  sources,  including  renewable  energy  sources  and alternative fuels, across the aviation, facility, and ground vehicle/equipment domains. 2.13.  Leverage alternative financing mechanisms, to include performance contracting tools, to acquire renewable energy and fund energy efficiency projects whenever practical. Pursue such  projects  that  provide  the  Air  Force  with  an  acceptable  rate  of  return,  improve  energy performance,  and/or  contribute  to  increased  energy  security  and  resiliency  for  critical missions. 2.14.  Ensure  any  alternative  fuels  acquired  for  operational  purposes  are  life-cycle  cost-competitive  with  traditional  fuels  and  qualified  as  compatible  with  existing  equipment  and infrastructure. 2.15.  Integrate  energy  considerations,  as  appropriate,  into  all  levels  of  requirements generation:  the  Strategy,  Planning,  and  Programming  Process  (SP3)  process;  acquisition; training; and all phases of operations to ensure energy is recognized as a mission critical need and  that  improvements  in  energy  performance  can  help  increase  combat  capabilities, optimize operations, and improve efficiencies for both installations and weapon systems. 2.16.  Support  the  use  of  energy  analyses  in  Air  Force  requirements,  acquisition,  and  SP3 processes,  including  the  use  of  the  fully  burdened  cost  of  energy  and  the  Energy  Key Performance Parameter (eKPP). 2.17.  Incorporate energy demand and logistics supportability into exercises and wargames. 2.18.  View  energy  resources  and  requirements  as  central  to  combat  mission  readiness  and critical to providing a strategic advantage. 3.  Roles  and  Responsibilities.  This  Directive  establishes responsibilities: the following roles  and 3.1.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SecAF)  retains  ultimate  responsibility  for  all  policies related to the Department of the Air Force. 3.2.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Installations,  Environment  and  Energy (SAF/IE)  serves  as  SecAF’s  agent  within  the  energy  domain,  including  as  the  Air  Force Senior  Energy  Official,  which  focuses  on  installation  energy,  and  the  Senior  Operational Energy  Official,  which  focuses  on  operational  energy  IAW  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF) 4 AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 Mission Directive 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Energy). In that capacity, SAF/IE will: 3.2.1.  Serve as the principal advisor to the SecAF and Chief of Staff of the Air Force on all energy-related issues. 3.2.2.  Provide  guidance,  direction,  and  oversight  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the formulation,  review,  and  execution  of  plans,  policies,  and  programs  addressing  energy and  water  use  within  the  Air  Force,  to  include,  but  not  limited  to,  facility,  process,  and operational energy. 3.2.3.  Establish  Air  Force  energy  strategy,  policy,  priorities,  and  goals  under  the authority  and  direction  of  the  SecAF,  including  providing  guidance  for  the  Air  Force when  specific  DoD  direction  or  guidance  does  not  exist  for  any  new  federal  energy policies. 3.2.4.  Approve  exceptions  to  Air  Force  energy  policies  that  arise  due  to  mission requirements.  Exceptions  should  be  identified,  submitted,  and  reviewed  based  on standardized processes. 3.2.5.  Provide resolution when conflicts arise within the Air Force over areas of energy responsibilities or priorities. 3.2.6.  Conduct  overall  governance,  oversight,  and  monitoring  of  Air  Force  progress towards meeting energy and water goals and objectives. 3.2.7.  Establish  and  manage  the  Air  Force  energy  governance  structure,  which  will provide strategic direction and oversight, as well as resolve energy issues impacting more than one organization or functional area. 3.2.8.  Represent the Air Force on DoD-level energy governance forums. 3.2.9.  Represent the Air Force before other government organizations (to include, but not limited  to,  Congress,  OSD,  other  Services,  and  other  Executive  departments  and agencies) on issues concerning energy management. 3.2.10.  Serve as the principal contact between the Air Force, OSD, and other Services on issues concerning energy management, including operational energy and facility energy. 3.2.11.  Provide  guidance,  direction  and  oversight  for  the  use  and  allocation  of  special topic  funds  (i.e.,  funding  provided  to  the  Air  Force  that  was  not  requested  in  the  Air Force’s budget request) related to the Air Force energy program. 3.2.12.  Approve  any  exemptions  to  industry  accepted  standards  based  on  military requirements. 3.2.13.  Ensure all elements of the eKPP are properly addressed in operational capability requirements documents IAW the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) processes and instructions. 3.2.14.  Collaborate  with  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and Services  (AF/A1)  and  the  Core  Function  Leads  to  incorporate  energy  awareness  into military and civilian education and training guidelines. 3.3.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will: AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 5 3.3.1.  Integrate  energy  considerations  into  acquisition  policies,  instructions,  program reviews, and training, as appropriate. 3.3.2.  Consider energy consumption and throughput throughout the acquisition lifecycle, including addressing the eKPP in acquisition programs, where appropriate. 3.4.  The  General  Counsel  of  the  Air  Force  (SAF/GC)  will  advise  the  Air  Force  on  legal matters related to energy management, in addition to the responsibilities outlined in Section 3.8 of this Directive,. 3.5.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Operations  (AF/A3),  in  addition  to  the  responsibilities outlined in Section 3.8 of this Directive, will: 3.5.1.  Develop official guidance/procedures to address and manage energy consumption, throughput,  and  requirements  for  Air  Force  air,  space,  and  cyberspace  operations  in alignment with Air Force requirements, policies, and strategic direction. 3.5.2.  Provide SAF/IE with the information required to support governance and perform oversight  of  energy  management  to  support  Air  Force  air,  space,  and  cyberspace operations. 3.5.3.  Identify  and  address  energy  security  risks  and  vulnerabilities  to  national  defense missions, assets, and capabilities, and provide continuity planning for mission assurance. 3.6.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4), in addition to the responsibilities outlined in Section 3.8 of this Directive, will: 3.6.1.  Develop  official  procedures  and  objectives  to  address  and  manage  energy  and water  consumption,  throughput,  and  requirements  for  Air  Force  installations,  facilities, ground  vehicles,  equipment,  logistics,  and  weapon  systems  sustainment,  in  alignment with Air Force requirements, policies, and strategic direction. 3.6.2.  Provide SAF/IE with the information required to support governance and perform oversight  of  energy  management  activities  across  Air  Force  installations,  facilities, ground vehicles, equipment, logistics, and weapon systems sustainment. 3.7.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Requirements (A5/8), in  addition to the  responsibilities  outlined  in  Section  3.8  of  this  Directive,  will  support  SAF/IE  to  ensure operational  capabilities  and  JCIDS  documents  address  energy  requirements,  where applicable. 3.8.  All Headquarters Air Force Directorates will: 3.8.1.  Identify,  plan,  develop,  and  implement  energy  programs  within  their  area  of responsibility,  IAW  with  energy  and  water  policies  and  direction  provided  by  SAF/IE and in support of Air Force strategic energy priorities and goals. 3.8.2.  Develop  policies,  guidance,  procedures,  and  practices  that  provide  maximum opportunities to enhance the Air Force energy security posture and energy productivity. 3.8.3.  Ensure  Air  Force  publications  written  within  their  area  of  responsibility  are consistent with Air Force energy goals and objectives. 6 AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 3.8.4.  Assess  operational,  facility,  and  process  energy  use  and  risks  to  identify investment opportunities and efficiency measures that can enhance capability and mission success. 3.8.5.  Support the energy governance structure. 3.9.  Core  Function  Leads  (CFLs)  will  integrate  operational  energy,  energy  security,  and energy resilient measures and opportunities as identified through AF mission initiatives and priorities. 3.10.  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC),  in  addition  to  the  responsibilities  outlined  in Section 3.12 of this Directive, will perform an oversight role as the parent Major Command (MAJCOM) for AFIMSC that is appropriate and consistent with other AFMC Centers. 3.11.  Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) will: 3.11.1.  Develop  and  execute  (centralized  and  decentralized)  facility  energy  programs, plans, and policies in support of the Air Force strategic energy priorities and goals with integration of MAJCOM mission requirements. 3.11.2.  Manage MAJCOM/DRUs facility energy portfolio. 3.11.3.  Assess  facility  and  process  energy  use  and  risks  to  identify  investment opportunities and efficiency measures that can enhance capability and mission success. 3.11.4.  Provide  guidance  on  energy  project  development,  utility  recommendations  and requirements validation, capabilities oversight and resource advocacy, and oversight and guidance on budgeting and execution funding. 3.11.5.  Promote policies, procedures and practices that provide maximum  opportunities to enhance AF energy security posture and energy resiliency. 3.11.6.  Develop standardized processes for the facility energy program. 3.11.7.  Coordinate  with  HAF  functional  staffs  and  MAJCOMs  to  ensure  consistent information and application. 3.12.  All MAJCOMs, ANG, and Direct Reporting Units (DRU) will: and execute programs, 3.12.1.  Develop the MAJCOM/ANG/DRU's  mission  and  responsibilities  that  support  Air  Force  strategic energy  direction,  and  consult  with  those  organizations  that  manage  energy-related programs  and  portfolios  on  the  MAJCOM/ANG/DRU's  behalf  to  ensure  any  identified impacts to the mission of the MAJCOM/ANG/DRUs are evaluated and addressed. policies  within plans, and 3.12.2.  Assess operational energy use and risks to identify investment opportunities and efficiency  measures  that  can  enhance  capability  and  mission  success.  Integrate  those opportunities  and  measures  within  the  MAJCOM  controlled  processes  and  operations. Forward  those  opportunities  and  measures  not  within  MAJCOM  control  to  the appropriate  AF  energy  portfolio  managers  (e.g.,  facility  energy,  operational,  ground transportation, etc.). 3.12.3.  Support the energy governance structure, with an emphasis on the mission of the respective MAJCOM or DRU. AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 7 3.12.4.  Identify potential incompatibilities with Air Force energy policies that occur due to  mission  requirements  or  situations  with  significant  financial  impacts  based  on  cost-benefit analyses, and request exceptions on a case-by-case basis from SAF/IE. 3.12.5.  Provide  information  and  data  to  HAF  to  support  policy  development  and oversight. 3.12.6.  Manage execution of non-facility energy projects and activities (i.e., those related to  Air  Force  operations,  ground  vehicles,  equipment,  logistics,  and  depot  maintenance) based on oversight, policies, direction and guidance set by HAF. 3.12.7.  Adopt  and  promulgate  facility  energy  portfolio  requirements  for installations. their 3.12.8.  Promote total energy awareness throughout their organization. 3.12.9.  Identify new energy requirements to the responsible CFL.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force 8 AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 23-2, Management of US Air Force Bulk Petroleum and Related Products, 17 December 2012 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 33-115, Air Force Information Technology (IT) Service Management, 29 October 2015 Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012 DoDI 4170.11, Installation Energy Management, 11 December 2009 DoDI 4140.25, DoD Management Policy for Energy Commodities and Related Services, 25 June 2015 DoDD 5134.15, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs, 17 May 2011 DoDD 4180.01, DoD Energy Policy, 16 April 2014 HAF Mission Directive 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Energy), 10 July 2014 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFI—Air Force Instruction AFIMSC—Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center AFMAN—Air Force Manual ANG—Air National Guard CFL—Core Function Lead DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Report Unit HAF—Headquarters Air Force MAJCOM—Major Command AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 9 OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense POC—Point of Contact POM—Program Objective Memorandum SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SP3—Strategy, Planning, and Programming Process Terms Energy—Any usable power, including, but not limited to, electricity and power produced from coal, petroleum products, steam, natural gas, propane, military operational fuels and propellants, alternative fuels, and alternative and renewable energy sources, such as solar, wind, geothermal, and nuclear. Energy  Assurance—Activities  across  three  main  categories—preparation  and  planning, mitigation and response, and education and outreach—focused on the goal of energy resiliency. Energy  Governance—Energy  governance  is  the  combination  of  procedures,  structures,  and authorities implemented by the Air Force to achieve energy priorities and goals. Energy  Key  Performance  Parameter—A  characteristic  considered  critical  or  essential  to  the development of an effective military capability that is included in requirements documents and is intended  to  ensure  combat  capability  of  the  force  by  balancing  the  energy  performance  of systems  and  the  provisioning  of  energy  to  sustain  systems/forces  required  by  the  operational commander under applicable threat environments. Energy  Management—The process of developing, executing, and overseeing plans, programs, and initiatives to achieve energy and water goals and objectives across all functional areas. Energy Resilience—The ability to anticipate, prepare for, and adapt to changing conditions and withstand, respond to, and recover rapidly from energy disruptions. Energy  Security—The  state  of  having  assured  access  to  reliable  supplies  of  energy  and  the ability to protect and deliver sufficient energy to meet mission essential requirements. Facility Energy—Energy consumed in any building, structure, or other property (including any applicable  fixtures)  owned  or  operated  by,  or  constructed  or  manufactured  and  leased  to,  the Federal  Government  where  the  majority  of  energy  use  is  devoted  to  the  heating,  cooling, lighting, ventilation, or to service the water heating energy load requirements of the facility. Fully  Burdened  Cost  of  Energy—The  commodity  price  for  energy  (to  include  fuel)  plus  the total  cost  of all personnel  and assets required to  move and, when necessary, protect  the energy from the point at which the energy is received from the commercial supplier to the point of use. Installation  Energy—The  energy  used  to  power  all  facilities  located  on  military  installations and enduring locations, as well as fuel for the non-tactical fleet vehicles used at those locations and the energy consumed in manufacturing, maintenance, and other processes. Operational  Energy—Energy required for training, moving, and sustaining military forces and weapons  platforms  for  military  operations.  The  term  includes  energy  used  by  tactical  power systems, generators, and weapons platforms. 10 AFPD90-17  18 NOVEMBER 2016 Process  Energy—Energy  consumed  in  support  of  a  manufacturing,  industrial,  or  commercial process other than conditioning spaces and maintaining comfort and amenities for the occupants of a building. This includes, but is not limited to, energy consumed by industrial facilities (such as maintenance depots), data centers, simulators, and laboratory equipment.  