BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 34-11 13 JULY 2016 Services WARRIOR AND SURVIVOR  CARE SERVICES  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing CoP at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  AF/A1SAZ  Supersedes:  AFPD 34-11, 18 May 2012  Certified by: SAF/US  (Ms. Lisa Disbrow) Pages: 4    This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  establishes  policy  for  the  Air  Force  Warrior  and Survivor  Care  program.    The  Air  Force  will  establish  standardized  procedures  for  the  care  of recovering  service  members  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Department  of  Defense  (DoD) Instruction  (DoDI)  1300.24,  Recovery  Coordination  Program  and  DoDI  6010.24,  Interagency Complex Care Coordination.  This directive applies to the active component, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve and the Director  of  the  Air  National  Guard,  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and Services  (AF/A1)  develops  policy  for  Warrior  and  Survivor  Care  Services.    The  authorities  to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.    See  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms Management,  for  a  description  of  the  authorities  associated  with  the  Tier  numbers.    Submit requests  for  waivers  through  the  chain  of  command  to  the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered  compliance  items.    Refer recommended changes to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). 2  SUMMARY OF CHANGES AFPD34-11  13 JULY 2016 This directive is changed to update the combination of the Air Force Wounded Warrior (AFW2) and  the  Air  Force  Recovery  Coordination  Program  (RCP)  into  a  single  program  supporting  all wounded, ill and injured who require a Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) or Physical Evaluation Board (PEB) to  determine fitness  for duty  and  will require long-term  care.   This  directive also outlines the requirement to meet the provisions of applicable DoDI regarding coordination with the Department of Veterans Affairs. 1.  Overview.  Air  Force  Warrior  and  Survivor  Care  encompasses  all  non-clinical  support  to seriously wounded, ill and injured Airmen and their families.Note: In this directive, a “member” is  considered  any  enlisted  member  or  officer  on  active  duty  or  Air  Force  Reserve  Component member, as well as any Air Force civilian employee, who becomes wounded, ill or is injured in a duty status. Official “line of duty” determinations will be made for entitlement purposes. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  Air  Force  Warrior  and  Survivor  Care  shall  include  the  Air  Force  Wounded  Warrior (AFW2) program, executing the DoD required Recovery Coordination Program (RCP). (T-0) 2.1.1.  There  shall  be  an  Air  Force  RCP  for  wounded,  ill  and  injured  Airmen  to  ensure support to affected Air Force members and their families through recovery, rehabilitation, reintegration and where necessary to assist Air Force members’ transition for separation from the Air Force. (T-0) 2.1.2.  There  shall  be  supporting  programs  as  directed  by  public  law  and/or  included  in DoDIs that support physical, psychological, social and familial rehabilitation. (T-0) 2.1.3.  There shall be guidance specific to meeting the coordination requirements agreed upon between the DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs in supporting a seamless handoff and transition of wounded, ill and injured Airmen and their families between the Departments. (T-0) 2.2.  Except in cases of overriding public interest, releasable information regarding the death or combat or non-combat  related injury or illness of an Airman will not  be provided to  the public or Congress before the member’s next of kin or a designated family representative has been officially notified. (T-0) 3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1). 3.1.1.  Serves  as  focal  point  for  all  Air  Force  Warrior  and  Survivor  Care  programs, bringing together key staff agencies and field activities to provide immediate information and assistance to wounded Air Force members, field commanders, and Air Force senior leadership.    AFPD34-11  13 JULY 2016 3  3.1.2.  Provides  implementing  guidance  and  procedures  for  the  Air  Force  Warrior  and Survivor Care programs identified in 2.1. 3.1.3.  Serves as the sole reporting authority for the Recovery Coordination Program.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD34-11  13 JULY 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 1300.24, Recovery Coordination Program, 1 December 2009 DoDI 6010.24, Interagency Complex Care Coordination, 14 May 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFW2—Air Force Wounded Warrior DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction IAW—In Accordance With MEB—Medical Evaluation Board OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PEB—Physical Evaluation Board RCP—Recovery Coordination Program US—United States Terms Air Force Wounded Warrior—Any seriously or very seriously ill or injured member on active duty;  Air  National  Guard  and  AF  Reserve  personnel  on  any  military  status,  regardless  of  the circumstances  that  led  to  the  illness  or  injury,  will  be  classified  as  an  Air  Force  Wounded Warrior when they meet program enrollment criteria.  Combat wounded Airmen not returned to duty are automatically enrolled. Military  Personnel—All  Air  Force  members  on  active  duty;  Air  National  Guard  and  AF Reserve  personnel  on  any  military  status;  United  States  (US)  Air  Force  Academy  and  Reserve Officer Training Corp cadets when engaged in directed training activities; members of other US Military  Services  serving  on  extended  active  duty  with  the  Air  Force;  and  foreign  national military personnel assigned to the US Air Force. Air Force members serving on extended active duty with another DoD component are excluded from this definition. Recovery  Coordination  Program—Program  designed  to  address  reforms  to  existing  care managements processes within the DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 