 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 32-60 4 MARCH 2015 Civil Engineering HOUSING  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   HQ USAF/A4CO  Supersedes:   AFPD32-60, 16 October 2005 Certified by: SAF/IE (Ms. Miranda A. A. Ballentine) Pages: 5   This  publication  implements  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Instruction  4165.63,  DoD  Housing Management, 28 July 2008, and DoD 4165.63-M, 28 October 2010.  It does not apply to the Air Force  Reserve  or  Air  National  Guard.    It  provides  policy  for  establishing  and  operating government-controlled and privatized housing programs.  Secretary of the Air Force approval is required to change, reissue or rescind this directive.  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does  not  imply endorsement by the Air Force. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate functional’s chain of command.  Ensure that all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  AFPD  has  been  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    This  revision updates  key  policies  for  housing  management.    Major  changes  include  the  requirement  for housing offices to  provide housing-related  relocation and  referral  services to  eligible personnel and  their  family  at  both  the  losing  and  gaining  commands;  to  ensure  Service  members  obtain housing  support  services  before  agreeing  to  rent,  lease,  or  purchase  housing;  and  to  provide   2  AFPD32-60  4 MARCH 2015 installation commanders with broad authority to decide best use of resources to provide access to housing for eligible personnel.  1.  Overview.  This  directive  establishes  policies  and  responsibilities  for  managing  Air  Force Housing  Programs  to  ensure  personnel  and  their  families  and  eligible  civilians  have  access  to affordable,  quality  family  and  unaccompanied  housing  and  services  consistent  with  grade  and dependent status and generally reflecting contemporary community living standards.  Air Force Housing  Programs  consist  of  family,  unaccompanied,  privatized,  leased  and  general  officer homes as well as furnishings management. 2.  Policy.  The Air Force will: 2.1.  Provide  management  and  housing-related  relocation  and  referral  services  to  eligible personnel  and  their  families  at  both  the  losing  and  gaining  commands  and  ensure  Service members obtain housing support services before agreeing to rent, lease, or purchase housing. 2.2.  Rely  on  the  private  sector  as  the  primary  source  of  housing  for  accompanied  and unaccompanied personnel, normally eligible to draw a housing allowance. 2.3.  Use the Air Force  Housing Requirements  and Market  Analysis (HRMA) methodology to  determine  housing  requirements,  and  dispose  of  housing  in  excess  of  requirements  or when uneconomical to maintain and repair. 2.4.  Develop  and  maintain  a  Housing  Community  Plan  (HCP)  at  each  installation  where housing  is  not  privatized.    The  Air  Force  Family  Housing  Master  Plan  (FHMP)  and Dormitory  Master  Plan  (DMP)  will  serve  as  roadmaps  for  planning  and  programming investments, operations and maintenance (O&M) and privatization. 2.5.  Design  and  construct  housing  that  conforms  to  criteria  and  standards  defined  in  law, DoD  and  Air  Force  policies;  incorporate  whole-house  standards,  improve  livability,  correct deficiencies, and protect and conserve energy. 2.6.  Operate,  repair,  maintain  and  modernize  housing  to  a  standard  that  protects  housing facilities  from  deterioration  and  provides  safe  and  comfortable  living  places  for  Service members  and  their  dependents.    The  level  of  maintenance  on  each  housing  unit  will  be sufficient to protect the Air Force capital investment and to conserve operating costs. 2.7.  Institute rigorous controls  to  carry out  housing O&M and capital  investment  programs within establish congressional limits. 2.8.  Comply  with  Public  Law  No.  104-106,  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  of  1996, which  established  the  Military  Housing  Privatization  Initiative  (MHPI),  to  obtain  private sector  capital  and  expertise  to  operate,  manage,  provide  oversight,  maintain,  improve, renovate and construct housing for families and unaccompanied personnel on or near military installations in the United States (10 U.S.C. §§ 2871 –2885). 2.9.  Maintain  established  standards  of  occupancy  through  equitable  distribution,  efficient management and operation of Air Force-controlled housing. 2.10.  Ensure  installation  commanders  have  responsibility  for  their  military  housing programs  with  broad  authority  to  decide  the  best  use  of  resources  to  provide  access  to housing for eligible personnel and their families. AFPD32-60  4 MARCH 2015   3  3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Installations,  Environment  and  Logistics (SAF/IE) develops family and unaccompanied housing policy, exercises program oversight, and is the primary Air Force liaison with the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Congress, other federal agencies, external organizations and state and local governments. 3.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Logistics,  Installations  and  Mission  Support  (AF/A4) develops  and  issues  family  housing  and  unaccompanied  housing  implementing  policy guidance  and  performs  oversight  for  housing  programs.    AF/A4  interfaces  with  applicable Department of Defense offices on housing matters. 3.3.  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs)  and  Installation  Commanders  identify  requirements, establish and execute housing programs in compliance with Air Force instructions.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD32-60  4 MARCH 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoD Instruction 4165.63, DoD Housing Management, 28 July 2008 DoD Manual 4165.63-M, DoD Housing Management, 28 October 2010 Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Public Law No. 104-106, National Defense Authorization Act of 1996, as amended, Title XXVIII, Subtitle A—Military Housing Privatization Initiatives (MHPI), 10 U.S.C. §§ 2871 –2885, as amended) Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System DMP—Dormitory Master Plan DoD—Department of Defense FHMP—Family Housing Master Plan AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support AF/A4C—Headquarters Air Force/Office of The Civil Engineer HCP—Housing Community Plan HRMA—Housing Requirements and Market Analysis IC—Installation Commander MAJCOM—Major Command MHPI—Military Housing Privatization Initiative O&M—Operations and Maintenance OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF/IE—Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Installations,  Environment  and Logistics) U.S.C.—United States Code AFPD32-60  4 MARCH 2015   5  Terms Family Housing—Government-owned, leased, controlled and privatized housing assets used as a residence for eligible military and civilian members and their families. Leased  Housing—Privately-owned  housing  leased  by  the  government.  The  lease  agreement defines the operation, maintenance and repair responsibilities of the lessor and lessee. Privatized  Housing—Military  family  housing  acquired  or  constructed  by  an  eligible  entity pursuant to the MHPI legislation. This housing may be located on Government property leased to  the entity, typically for 50  years. This  housing is  not  DoD-owned, but  is  one of the housing choices available to Service members. Unaccompanied Housing—Housing assets (owned or leased) constructed or designated for use by  unaccompanied  permanent  party  personnel,  including  dormitories,  unaccompanied  non-commissioned officer quarters, and unaccompanied officer quarters.  