 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-10 23 SEPTEMBER 2015 Personnel CIVILIAN PERFORMANCE AND RECOGNITION  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1C  Supersedes:   AFPD 36-10, 31 October 2000 Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 4   This  publication  implements  the  requirements  of  Title  5,  United  States Code  (U.S.C.),  Chapter 43, Performance Appraisal, Chapter 45, Performance-Based Cash Awards, and Chapter 53, Pay Rates and Systems; and Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 315 (Probation), Part 430 (Performance Appraisal),  Part 451 (Performance Awards), Parts 531 and 532 (Within-Grade  Increases  (WGI).  It  also  implements  and  complies  with  DoDI  1400.25,  Volumes  430, Performance  Management,  and  Volume  451,  Awards.  The  Air  Force  civilian  performance  and recognition  programs  apply  to  all  General  Schedule  (GS)  and  Federal  Wage  System  (FWS) employees. This includes senior-level, scientific, and professional employees paid under Title 5, United States Code, Chapter 53, Section 5376, as well as civilian employees of the Air Reserve Command and Air National Guard. In  collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve,  (AF/RE),  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard,  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for civilian personnel resource management. This publication may not be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this directive to the Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847,  Recommendation  for Change of Publication.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   2  AFPD36-10  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  provides  administrative  updates  throughout.  It  clarifies  performance  management policy for probationary and trial periods. 1.  Overview. 1.1.  The  Air  Force  depends  upon  a  large  civilian  work  force  to  accomplish  its  various missions.  Managing  this  work  force  requires  an  effective  system  for  use  in  planning, monitoring, developing, evaluating, recognizing and rewarding individual and organizational performance. This directive provides policy for managing civilian performance management and recognition. 1.2.  The  Air  Force  will  ensure  performance  management  and  recognition  programs  are administered  without  unlawful  discrimination  because  of  race,  color,  religion,  gender (including  pregnancy),  national  origin,  age  (40  or  older),  disability,  genetic  information,  or  prior EO activity. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  Performance  Management.  Air  Force’s  performance  appraisal  system  is  based  on objective  measurements  of  performance  against  individual  and  organizational  goals, establishment  of  accountability  in  meeting  those  goals,  and  evaluation  of  individual  and organizational accomplishments. 2.2.  Probation on Initial Appointment to a Competitive Position.  The Air Force will use the  probationary  period  as  fully  as  possible  to  determine  the  fitness  of  civilian  employees.  The  Air  Force  will  ensure  full  and  fair  evaluation  of  probationary  employees’  fitness  for federal service.  It shall terminate an employee’s services during this period if he or she fails to  demonstrate  fully  his/her  qualifications  for  continued  employment.    The  Air  Force  may terminate  an  employee  serving  a  probationary  or  trial  period  because  of  his  or  her  work performance or conduct during this period.  (See Title 5 CFR, Part 315, Subpart H). 2.3.  Probation  on  Initial  Appointment  to  a  Supervisory  or  Managerial  Position.  The Air  Force  will  use  the  probationary  period  as  fully  as  possible  to  determine  fitness  for supervisory  or  managerial  duties.    The  Air  Force  will  promptly  take  action  should  a supervisor  or  manager  fail  to  satisfactorily  complete  the  probationary  or  trial  period.  (See Title 5 CFR, Part 315, Subpart I) 2.4.  Within Grade Increases (WIGI).  The Air Force will use the waiting period as fully as possible to determine the fitness of the employee’s overall “Acceptable” performance current rating  of  record.  The  Air  Force  will  promptly  take  action  when  the  employee  fails  to demonstrate acceptable performance. (See Title 5 CFR 532.417) 2.5.  Recognition.  The  Air  Force  will  recognize  excellence  in  its  civilian  employees  and motivate them  to  high levels  of performance and service. The Air Force  endorses incentive awards  to  recognize  employee  or  organizational  contributions  that  result  in  benefits  or savings to the government. AFPD36-10  23 SEPTEMBER 2015   3  3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Manpower  and  Reserve  Affairs (SAF/MR).  Serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary  and  provides  guidance,  direction,  and oversight  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  formulation,  review,  and  execution  of  plans, policies,  programs,  and  budgets  addressing  civilian  performance  management  and recognition. 3.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force,  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (AF/A1).  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and Director of the Air  National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  develops,  coordinates,  and  executes  personnel  policy  and essential  procedural  guidance  for  the  management  of  the  civilian  performance  and recognition programs. 3.3.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM).  Develops,  defends,  and  coordinates  civilian  personnel  funding  and  utilization related to civilian performance and recognition programs; allocates award funding resources; and  forecasts,  executes,  and  adjusts  civilian  personnel  budgets  in  conjunction  with  the Secretary of Defense and the Office of Management and Budget.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD36-10  23 SEPTEMBER 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 5 USC, Chapter 43, Performance Appraisal 5 USC, Chapter 45, Incentive Awards 5 USC, Chapter 53, Pay Rates and Systems (General) 5 CFR, Part 315, Career and Career-Conditional Employment  5 CFR, Part 430, Performance Management 5 CFR, Part 432, Performance Based Reduction in Grade and Removal Actions 5 CFR, Part 451, Awards 5 CFR Part 532.417, Within Grade Increases DoD Directive 1400.25, Civilian Personnel Management System, December 1, 2003 AFI 33-360, Publications Management, September 25, 2003 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Acronyms and Abbreviations CFR—Code of Federal Regulations EO—Equal Opportunity WIGI—Within Grade Increases  