 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-5 14 JULY 2015 Special Management COMMUNITY ACTION INFORMATION BOARD (CAIB)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1SA  Supersedes:   AFPD90-5, 15 October 2002 Certified by: SAF/MR (Daniel R. Sitterly, SES) Pages: 4   This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  implements  policy  and  assigns  responsibilities  for  the Community  Action  Information  Board  (CAIB)  and  Integrated  Delivery  System  (IDS).    This policy  directive  interfaces  with  AFPD  36-60,  Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and  Response  (SAPR) Program; AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion;  AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program; AFPD 44-1, Medical  Operations;  and  AFPD  52-1,  Chaplain  Corps.    This  AFPD  applies  to  all  military  and civilian Air Force personnel; it also applies to all Air Force Reserve units and the Air National Guard to the extent they are capable of providing services.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for Community  Action  Information  Board  program.    This  publication  may  not  be  supplemented.  Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  Air  Force  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route Air Force Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Requests for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363, Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  substantially  rewritten  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    The rewrite  updates  CAIB  and  IDS  requirements,  identifies  the  Community  Support  Coordinator (CSC) position, and clarifies terms.   2  AFPD90-5  14 JULY 2015 1.1.  Overview.  The  Air  Force  is  committed  to  maintaining  an  enhanced  readiness  posture through the cross-organizational collaboration that addresses individual, family, and community concerns.    This  directive  establishes  policy  for  the  creation  of  Air  Force,  Major  Command (MAJCOM), and installation CAIB and IDS functions. 1.1.1.  CAIB  and  IDS  activities  will  utilize  a  holistic  approach,  Comprehensive  Airman Fitness (CAF), to develop over-arching Airman fitness and resilience. 1.1.2.  CAF includes fitness in mental, physical, social, and spiritual domains and is not a stand-alone  program  or  specified  training  class;  instead,  CAF  is  a  cultural  shift  in  how fitness is viewed in a more comprehensive manner. 1.1.3.  CAF  provides  an  integrated  framework  that  encompasses  many  cross-functional education  and  training  efforts,  activities,  programs,  and  other  equities  that  play  a contributory  role  in  sustaining  a  fit,  resilient,  and  ready  force.    Leaders  and  individuals throughout the force must understand, promote, and support CAF. 1.1.4.  CAIBs are cross-functional forums created to identify and resolve or elevate to the next  appropriate  level  those  installation  and  community  issues  that  impact  readiness  or affect the quality of life of Air Force members and their families. 1.1.5.  The  IDS  is  a  working  group  at  all  Air  Force  levels  comprised  of  members  from respective two-letter organizations.  The Air Force  IDS  consists of representatives from all  Air  Force  functional  communities  represented  on  the  Air  Force  CAIB.    The  IDS  is designed to identify, discuss, and elevate issues to the appropriate level CAIB that relate to readiness and the general health and well-being of installation communities. 1.1.6.  The  functions  of  a  CAIB  and  IDS  are  managed  and  organized  by  an  Executive Director and Chairperson, respectively. 1.1.7.  For  locations  that  have  an  assigned  CSC,  this  individual  will  assume  the  role  of CAIB Executive Director and IDS Chairperson simultaneously.  For locations that do not have a CSC position, the Vice Commander will appoint a member to serve in each role from the assigned population; these functions will not be assigned to individuals from the same organization. 2.1.  Policy.  Effective CAIB and IDS functions require streamlined communication channels to ensure  community  concerns  or  issues  can  be  submitted  through  appropriate  processes, sufficiently  researched,  and  tendered  to  the  most  immediate  level  CAIB  or  IDS  function  for resolution and/or submission to higher headquarters. 2.1.1.  Sources for discovering community issues are varied and may include Secretary of the Air Force/Chief of Staff of the Air Force priorities, biennial community assessments, metric requirements  issued  by  higher  headquarter-levels,  Caring  for  People  Forums,  inspections, audits,  lessons  learned  activities,  formally  published  policy  changes,  and/or  existing  Air Force social media outlets for obtaining information from Airmen and their families. 2.1.2.  CAIB  and  IDS  functions  will  be  structured  to  support  the  elements/echelons immediately below to  ensure open solicitation of concerns  and/or issues that enables  grass-root  efforts  by  every  Airman.    The  CAIB  and  IDS  functions  are  not  a  substitute  for addressing normal programmatic concerns without functional community coordination. AFPD90-5  14 JULY 2015   3  2.1.3.  A Community Action Plan (CAP) must be submitted at least  every two  years by the IDS to its respective CAIB at all levels of the Air Force.  This written document summarizes and  consolidates  the  community  issues  identified  as  concerns  by  Air  Force  members,  their families, commanders, or other individuals.  Proposed solutions  should be prepared  at  each level for consideration to the next level CAIB. 2.1.4.  The  CAIB  and  IDS  capability  also  provides  a  dedicated  forum  for  Air  Force leadership at each level to remain informed and abreast of Air Force-wide significant issues and/or challenges.  Examples of these are suicide, sexual assault, resilience education, rapid force employee sequestration/furloughs, all of which greatly impact Airmen and their families. re-structuring  due to  budgetary reductions, and/or civilian 2.1.5.  The Air Force establishes the guidelines for CAIBs and IDSs in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-501, Community Action Information Board (CAIB) and Integrated Delivery System (IDS), at each level of the organization as well as the requirement for a CAP. 3.1.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.1.  The  Air  Force  Assistant  Vice  Chief  of  Staff  (AF/CVA)  establishes  an  Air  Force CAIB, CAIB membership policy for all levels, and resource requirements.  AF/CVA chairs the AF CAIB. 3.1.2.  Major  command  vice  commanders  (MAJCOM/CV)  establish  MAJCOM  CAIBs  and act as chairs.  Each MAJCOM/CV is responsible for implementing guidelines and directives from the AF CAIB within their command. 3.1.3.  Installation  commanders  establish  and  chair  the  installation  CAIB.    Each  installation commander their MAJCOM/CV. implementing  guidelines  and  directives  from is  responsible  for 4.1.  Implementation.  AFI  90-501,  Community  Action  Information  Board  and  Integrated Delivery System; AFI 90-505, Suicide Prevention Program; AFI 90-506, Comprehensive Airman Fitness  (CAF);  AFI  90-507,  Military  Drug  Demand  Reduction  Program;  and  AFI  90-508,  Air Force Civilian Drug Demand Reduction Program implement this Directive.  Eric K. Fanning Under Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD90-5  14 JULY 2015 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References AFPD 90-60, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 28 Mar 2008 AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion, 17 Dec 2009 AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 6 Dec 2011 AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 Sep 1999 AFPD 51-2, Chaplain Corps, 19 Dec 2013 AFI 90-501, Community Action Information Board and Integrated Delivery System, 15 Oct 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 Adopted Form AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF/A1SA—Air Force Airman and Family Care Division AF/CVA—Air Force Assistant Vice Chief of Staff AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manuel AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive ANG—Air National Guard CAF—Comprehensive Airman Fitness CAIB—Community Action Information Board CAP—Community Action Plan CSC—Community Support Coordinator IAW—In accordance with IDS—Integrated Delivery System MAJCOM—Major Command MAJCOM/CV—Major Command Vice Commander OPR—Office of Responsibility  