 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-38 1 JUNE 2016 Personnel PERSONNEL READINESS, REPORTING AND ACCOUNTABILITY     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A1XOR  Supersedes:  AFPD 36-38, 23 May 2011  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 5 This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense (DoD)  Instruction (DoDI) 3001.02,  Personnel Accountability In Conjunction  With Natural Or Manmade Disaster and Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1400.31, DoD Civilian Work Force Contingency and  Emergency  Planning  and  Execution.    It  establishes  policies  to  maintain  visibility  and accountability of personnel and to ensure the Air Force maintains its ability to respond across the range  of  military  operations.  This  publication  applies  to  the  Regular  Air  Force  (military  and civilian), the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve (AFR).  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  personnel policy  for  personnel  readiness,  reporting  and  accountability.    This  publication  may  not  be supplemented.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  2 AFPD36-38  1 JUNE 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include realigned paragraphs and required statement from Human Resource Management on collaboration.    AFPD36-38  1 JUNE 2016 3 1.  Overview 1.1.  People have always been the Air Force’s greatest asset;  across the span of our total  force, they are essential to our ability to perform our missions.  During time of war, natural disasters or national emergencies, the ability to quickly assess the status of our members, and their families, is  critical  to  establishing  stability,  to  recover,  and  return  to  normal  operations  as  quickly  as possible. 1.2.  Taking care of our people is essential if we are to provide trained and ready Airmen and Department of the Air Force (DAF) Civilians capable of performing assigned tasks to satisfy Combatant Commander’s (CCDR) requested capabilities. 1.3.  The  Air  Force  has  significantly  changed  how  it  organizes,  trains,  equips,  deploys,  and sustains  forces  for  its  mission.    The  Force  Support  community  contributes  by  providing mission-ready  forces  as  well  as  providing  total  force  accountability,  casualty  reporting  and personnel  policies  and  procedures.    Understanding  and  accomplishing  these  roles  and responsibilities  is  crucial  for  ensuring  the  primary  goal  of  accurate  real-time  total  force accountability. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  Personnel  Accountability  is  inherent  to  command/unit  leadership  and  a  shared responsibility personnel.  Commanders/Directors  account  for  and  maintain  visibility  of  their  personnel  using established personnel accountability and reporting systems. commander/civilian between a director and their 2.2.  Personnel  Accountability  reporting  is  a  primary  mission  of  the  Air  Force  personnel community.    Personnel  reports  accountability  information  using  established  personnel accountability and reporting systems. 2.3.  Personnel  accountability  and  reporting  systems,  procedures,  and  processes  will  be developed to support Personnel accountability, reporting, and visibility requirements of DoD, the Joint Staff, and Air Force leadership.   These systems, procedures, and processes will: 2.3.1.  Include  use  of  Personnel  Accounting  Symbol  (PAS)  codes  to  account  for  and report by individual unit. 2.3.2.  Enable  accounting,  reporting,  and  historical  tracking  of  the  daily  location  of Airmen and DAF Civilians deployed in support of CCDR operations.    4 AFPD36-38  1 JUNE 2016 3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Manpower  and  Reserve  Affairs  (SAF/MR)  is responsible  for  policy  oversight  and  advocacy  of  the  Air  Force’s  Personnel  Readiness Program  and  for  interface  with  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  staff  concerning development of the Department of Defense (DoD) policy and legislative initiatives. 3.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policies and essential procedural guidance for managing the Personnel Readiness Program. DEBORAH LEE JAMES SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE   AFPD36-38  1 JUNE 2016 5 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With Natural Or Manmade Disasters, May 3, 2010 DoDD 1400.31, DoD Civilian Work Force Contingency and Emergency Planning and Execution, April 28, 1995 Adopted Form AF Form 847,  Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFR—Air Force Reserve ANG—Air National Guard CCDR—Combatant Commander DAF—Department of the Air Force DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol RDS—Records Disposition Schedule RegAF—Regular Air Force   