Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-181 MARCH 1997OperationsFOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL AIRCRAFT USEOF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDSNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: SAF/IAD  (Stephen C. Stubbs) Certified by: HQ USAF/XO(Lt Gen John P. Jumper)Pages: 3Distribution: FThis AFPD establishes policy on the use of United States Air Force airfields by foreign governmental air-craft to balance United States Air Force operational needs with the furtherance of United States foreignpolicy and national security objectives by permitting foreign governmental aircraft to land at UnitedStates Air Force airfields and by providing support to those aircraft while on United States Air Forceinstallations.1. The Air Force will manage the use of United States Air Force airfields by foreign governmental air-craft.1.1. With the exception of in-flight emergencies, operation of foreign governmental aircraft at AirForce airfields will be limited to flights in support of official government business.  The United StatesAir Force will permit foreign governmental aircraft, including military aircraft and civil aircraft char-tered for official governmental business, the use of Air Force airfields when compatible with the USdefense mission.  Official governmental business may be assumed with regard to airfields within theUnited States and its territories if the foreign government flight has been diplomatically cleared by theDepartment of State.1.2. Foreign governmental aircraft use of an Air Force airfield will be approved only if there will beno compromise of operations, security, readiness, safety, environment, or quality of life.2. Air Force requirements will take precedence over foreign governmental aircraft operations, whether ornot previously authorized.3. Foreign governmental aircraft use of Air Force airfields in the United States will be subject to Federallaws and regulations.  Foreign governmental aircraft use of Air Force airfields in foreign countries will besubject to Federal laws and regulations that have extra-territorial effect and to applicable internationalagreements with the country in which the Air Force installation is located.4. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:4.1. As program manager for foreign governmental aircraft, the Disclosure Division (SAF/IAD),Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (International Affairs) determines the level of decisionauthority for landing authorizations.  It may act on any request for any type of foreign governmentaluse; however, approval for certain categories and locations may be delegated to MAJCOM and instal-lation commanders. Foreign governmental aircraft landings approved by SAF/IAD are assigned anaircraft landing authorization number (ALAN). Unauthorized landings must be reported to SAF/IADin accordance with AFI 10-1801.4.2. SAF/IAD makes decisions on all requests for exceptions or waivers to this policy directive andits implementing instruction.  The decision process includes consultation with other Federal agenciesand affected functional area managers if appropriate.  Potential impacts on current and future AirForce policy and operations strongly influence such decisions.4.3. Major commands may issue supplements to establish command-unique procedures permitted byand consistent with this directive and its implementing instructions.5. This policy directive applies to all regular United States Air Force, Air National Guard, and UnitedStates Air Force Reserve installations with airfields.  This policy directive is also applicable to foreigngovernmental aircraft use of Air Force ramps at civil airports hosting Air National Guard and UnitedStates Air Force Reserve units.6. Related publications includes AFI 10-1801, Foreign Governmental Aircraft Landings at United StatesAir Force Installations.7. See Attachment 1 for measures of compliance with this directive.JOHN P. JUMPER,  Lt General, USAFDCS/Plans and Operations2Attachment 1MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICYA1.1. The Air Force assesses compliance with this policy directive by tracking landing permits and unau-thorized landings.  SAF/IAD tracks the number of aircraft landing authorization numbers issued annuallyand the number of unauthorized landings at US Air Force airfields reported during the same period.  Thisinformation is compiled and displayed on a chart that shows trends in progress (Figure A1.1.) toward thegoal of reducing the number of unauthorized landings.Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of SAF/IAD Approved Aircraft Landing Authorizations and Land-ings Without Authorization.3