BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 15-1 12 NOVEMBER 2015 Weather WEATHER OPERATIONS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication    OPR:  HQ USAF/A3WP  Supersedes:  AFPD 15-1, 19 February 2010  Certified by: HQ USAF/A3  (Lt Gen John W. Raymond) Pages: 7  This directive establishes policy for weather operations and applies to Regular Air Force and Air Force Reserve Components  when in  Title 10 status,  consistent with  Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)  90-1,  Policy  Formulation,  and  AFPD  16-10,  Modeling  and  Simulation.    Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  through  appropriate  functional  office  within  the  chain  of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed  of  in  accordance  with  AF  Records  Disposition  Schedule  located  in  the  AF  Records Information Management System.   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Responsibilities were updated  according  to  Program  Action  Directive  (PAD)  14-03,  Realignment  of  the  Air  Force Weather Agency. 1.  Policy.  This  directive  governs  AF  weather  policy  and  oversight  for  weather  operations  that characterize the environment and exploit weather information in support of designated national security objectives. 1.1.  Within  the  AF,  weather  operations  are  considered  a  subset  of  the  Global  Integrated Intelligence, Reconnaissance and Surveillance core function. 2 AFPD15-1  12 NOVEMBER 2015 1.2.  AF  weather  operations  are  an  essential  support  and  service  capability  across  all designated AF core functions and Army warfighting functions. 1.3.  The AF conducts weather operations to provide accurate, timely, relevant and consistent air  and  space  environmental  information  to  AF  and  specified  Army  units,  including  their respective  Reserve  components,  and  as  directed,  joint  forces,  coalition  forces,  and  other agencies, such as those combat support agencies under the purview of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence as defined in DoDD 3000.06, Combat Support Agencies (CSAs). 1.4.  Weather  personnel  characterize  and  enable  exploitation  of  the  environment  through collection,  processing,  analysis  and  prediction,  tailoring,  and  dissemination  of  atmospheric and  space  weather  data  and  information  from  DoD,  allied  military,  interagency,  and  other sources.    This  processed  information  may  be  further  tailored  and  is  integrated  for  use  by decision-makers at the strategic, operational and tactical levels.   These processes contribute to two distinct, yet related, primary functions: (1) characterizing the past, current, and future weather  conditions,  and  (2)  exploiting  those  conditions  as  actionable  and  authoritative information, injected at key decision points supporting military operations. 1.5.  Data  and  information  on  the  state  of  the  air  and  space  environment  are  essential elements  of  all  military  operations.    Environmental  situational  awareness  is  critical  to predictive  battlespace  awareness  and  enables  commanders  at  all  levels  to  exploit  the conditional  state(s)  of  the  atmosphere  and  space    environments  and  the  effects  of  those conditions  on  military  operations  in  order  to  achieve  specified  mission  objectives.  Commanders  must  integrate  the  effects  of  the  air  and  space  environments  on  friendly  and enemy  capabilities  into  appropriate  risk  management  and  military  decision-making processes. 2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 2.1.  The  Office  of  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  Air  Staff  are responsible for policy and resource advocacy and allocation for weather operations provided by the Air Force. 2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), Operations, (HQ USAF/A3) is responsible for: 2.2.1.  Weather  operations  and  capabilities  to  support  military  operations  and  direct support to elements of the AF and the U.S. Army according to interservice directives and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3810.01D, Meteorological and Oceanographic Operations.  2.2.2.  Implementing  Global  Force  Management  force  allocation  guidance  for  AF weather  capabilities,  working  with  JCS,  to  organize  and  allocate  these  capabilities  to meet  Combatant  Commander  requirements  according  to  AFPD  10-4,  Operations Planning:  Air  &  Space  Expeditionary  Force  (AEF).    Providing  policy  and  guidance  to assign  all  AF  military  weather  personnel  against  AEF  Indicators,  including  assessment and  monitoring  of  AF-wide  weather  technical  performance  and  effectiveness  and operational readiness of weather capabilities. 2.2.3.  Space weather operations capabilities in support of all elements of the DoD.  AFPD15-1  12 NOVEMBER 2015 3 2.2.4.  Authoritative  climate  data  and  information  in  support  of,  and  consistent  with  National Climate Assessments and associated DoD activities involving the mitigation and adaptation of DoD and military planning and resource decisions, worldwide. 2.2.5.  Guidance  and  procedures  to  implement  AF  weather  operations,  to  include  AF Modeling and Simulation activities for the Air and Space Natural Environment according to  DoDI  5000.70,  Management  of  DoD  Modeling  and  Simulation  Activities,  and  AFPD 16-10, Modeling and Simulation. 2.2.6.  Oversight  and  advocacy  for  the  AF  Weather  Weapon  Systems  (AFWWS)  to include  strategic  planning,  architecture,  capabilities-based  analyses,  programming, budgeting and sustainment. 2.2.7.  Weather expertise in response to HQ USAF, DoD, interagency, international, and other  government  inquiries  for  space  weather,  climatological  or  other  weather-related topics, as required. 2.3.  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  commanders  providing  support  to  AF  and/or  Army missions shall: 2.3.1.  Employ  appropriately  sized  weather  staffs  to  provide  theater  specific,  strategic-level advice, subject matter expertise, staff support, and coordination. the  environment  and information  within  military  decision-making  processes. 2.3.2.  Organize,  train  and  equip  assigned  weather  personnel  to  perform  two  primary to  enable  exploitation  of functions:  characterization  of environmental   Weather personnel  process  and  disseminate  the  outputs  of  collection,  analysis,  prediction  and tailoring  of  environmental  information  in  order  to  integrate  them  into  operations  and intelligence  decision-making  processes  while  also  providing  a  forward  presence  for reachback  organizations.    This  allows  decision-makers  to  exploit  air  and  space environmental  information  to  gain  an  operational  advantage  and  mitigate  risk.    Thus, commanders  of  supported  units  will  include  weather  personnel  in  their  organizations' mission planning and execution processes. 2.3.3.  Assess  and  monitor  technical  performance  and  effectiveness  and  operational readiness of weather capabilities according to AFPD 10-4. 2.3.4.  In the role of lead or using commands, ensure weather capabilities are integrated and  considered  in  any  lead-command  planning  and  requirements  processes  and/or forwarded to the appropriate lead command. 2.3.5.  In coordination with supported commands, as required, ensure weather capabilities are  considered  and  integrated  within  the  development  and  execution  of  training,  war, exercise, and contingency plans and orders. 2.3.6.  In  the  role  of  using  commands,  ensure  weather  resources  (e.g.,  manpower, funding) are efficiently and effectively allocated toward validated requirements. 2.4.  Commander, Air Combat Command, shall: 2.4.1.  Execute lead command functions for the AFWWS according to AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapons Systems, and other directives. 4 AFPD15-1  12 NOVEMBER 2015 2.4.2.  Conduct  global  and  regional  centralized  weather  operations  in  support  of  AF, Army and other designated missions, leveraged across all MAJCOMs.  Production shall support both a regional and global scope of responsibility providing the full spectrum of centralized  weather  information  (including  output  from  numerical  weather  prediction models, meteorological satellite imagery, air and space environmental data and products, and climatology) to characterize the past, current, and future air and space environment. 2.5.  Commander, Air Education and Training Command shall: 2.5.1.  Assess  training  needs,  provide  initial  skills  and  institutional  advanced  training programs  for  enlisted  and  officer  weather  personnel  and  assist  Air  Staff  in  effectively developing and sustaining weather personnel.   Develop  distributed learning materials  in support of the weather-training program. 2.5.2.  Sustain  a  Basic  Meteorological  Program  for  the  entry-level  accession  of  weather officers  without  requisite  meteorology  or  atmospheric  science  degrees,  and  advanced academic  degree  programs  at  the  Masters  and  Doctorate  levels  for  weather  and  space weather to include a resident atmospheric science master’s program. 2.6.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) shall: 2.6.1.  Conduct  integrated  lifecycle  management  for  assigned  components  of  the AFWWS through supporting Program Executive Officers (PEOs). 2.6.2.  Provide  staff  meteorological  support  to  AFMC-managed  research,  development, acquisition,  testing  and  sustainment  efforts  for  AF  weapon  systems  and  assist  the  AF weather  community  in  developing  and  maintaining  capabilities  to  support  emerging weapon systems. 2.7.  Commander, Air Force Space Command shall: 2.7.1.  Execute space-based environmental  monitoring  and  designated  ground-based  satellite  segments  and  space weather systems through supporting PEOs, according to AFPD 10-9 and other directives. implementing  command lead  and functions for 2.8.  Commander, Air Force Special Operations Command shall: 2.8.1.  Be  responsible  for  unique  weather  capabilities  required  to  support  special operations  missions,  including  those  required  to  support  US  Army  Special  Operations Command, through US Special Operations Command, to include planning, programming, budgeting and sustainment of required capabilities.  Enlisted Special Operations Weather Team capabilities will be advocated according to AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airmen.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force AFPD15-1  12 NOVEMBER 2015 5 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009 AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapons Systems, 8 March 2007 AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airmen, 4 February 2005 AFPD 16-10, Modeling and Simulation, 23 January 2015 AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 PAD 14-03, Realignment of the Air Force Weather Agency, 5 January 2015 DoDD 3000.06, Combat Support Agencies (CSAs), 27 June 2013 DoDI 5000.70, Management of DoD Modeling and Simulation Activities, 10 May 2014 CJCSI 3810.01D, Meteorological and Oceanographic Operations, 28 June 2013 Joint Publication (JP) 2-0, Joint Intelligence, 22 October 2013 JP 2-01, Joint and National Intelligence Support to Military Operations, 5 January 2012 AF Doctrine (AFD) Annex 3-59, Weather Operations, 27 May 2015 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  AEF —Air and Space Expeditionary Force AF —Air Force AFD —Air Force Doctrine AFMAN —Air Force Manual AFMC —Air Force Materiel Command AFMD —Air Force Mission Directive AFPD —Air Force Policy Directive AFWWS —Air Force Weather Weapon System CJCSI —Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction CSA —Combat Support Agency DoD —Department of Defense DoDD —Department of Defense Directive 6 AFPD15-1  12 NOVEMBER 2015 DoDI —Department of Defense Instruction JP —Joint Publication MAJCOM —Major Command OPR —Office of Primary Responsibility PAD —Program Action Directive PEO —Program Executive Officer Terms Analysis  —In  weather  operations,  the  process  of  studying  and  transforming  collected  and processed weather observations in the form of data and information into a current or near term characterization of the state of the air and space environment; usually including a separation of the  entity  into  its  component  patterns  and  involving  the  drawing  of  families  of  isopleths  for various elements.  Thus, the analysis of weather charts may consist, for example, of the drawing and the interpretation of the patterns of wind, pressure, pressure change, temperature, humidity, clouds, and hydrometeors, all based on observations taken or forecast simultaneously. (Derived from the American Meteorological Society Glossary of Meteorology) Authoritative Information —In weather operations, relevant weather information and products tailored or validated by an appropriate weather authority, accurately depicting the state of the air and/or  space  environment  at  a  specified  place  and  time  that  is  the  basis  for  consistent  military decision-making. Characterization  —In  weather  operations,  a  primary  function  of  collecting  accurate  weather and other environmental data and processing this data into usable information in order to analyze that data, and to  use the results to  produce  a coherent  picture of the past,  present  and/or  future state  of  the  air  and  space  environment.    It  encompasses  the  weather  processes  of  collection, exclusively,  and  also  elements  to  the  processes  of  analysis,  prediction,  and  tailoring.  (Derived from AFD Annex 3-59). Collection  —In weather operations, the process  of gathering and storing  raw weather data and information  into  databases  and  processing  elements  from  which  weather  products  are  later derived. (Derived from JP 2-01 and AFD Annex 3-59). Dissemination  —The process of delivering information and products to end users in a suitable form. (Derived from JP 2-01) Exploitation  —In weather operations, a primary  function of taking  full advantage of available weather data and information for tactical, operational, or strategic military advantage.  (Derived from JP 2-01.3 and AFD Annex 3-59). Integration  —The  process  of  applying  tailored  information  and  products  to  appropriate missions, tasks, and functions to inform planning and execution decision-making (Derived from JP 2-01 and AFD Annex 3-59). Mitigation  —The  process  of  providing  decision-makers  with  options  and  courses  of  action, based  on  tailored  and  integrated  information,  allowing  adjustment  of  resources  to  reduce  risks and maximize desired outcomes.  (Derived from AFD Annex 3-59). AFPD15-1  12 NOVEMBER 2015 7 Prediction  —In  weather  operations,  the  process  of  determining  the  future  state  of  the atmospheric  and  space  weather  environment  from  analyzed  weather  data  and  information, including, but not limited to, assessing advanced mathematical models.  The end product of the predictive analysis is a weather forecast. Processing  —A  system  of  operations  (process)  designed  to  convert  raw  data  into  useful information (JP 20). Tailoring  —The  process  of  transforming  relevant  information  into  actionable  information  and products  by  depicting  them  against  operationally  significant  parameters  and  values.    (Derived from AFD Annex 3-59).  