 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 48-1  23 AUGUST 2011 Aerospace Medicine AEROSPACE MEDICINE ENTERPRISE  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at: www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.   OPR:   AF/SG3P  Supersedes:   AFPD48-1, 3 October 2005 Certified by: AF/SG (Lt Gen Charles B. Green) Pages: 5   This  Policy  Directive  (PD)  establishes  policy  for  the  Aerospace  Medicine  Enterprise  (AME).  The AME consists of all  health service activities that directly support execution of the  Air Force (AF)  mission.  These  health service support areas  include aviation, occupational, environmental, and  operational  medicine;  industrial  hygiene;  public  health;  force  health  readiness  and protection;  medical  support  to  the  nuclear  enterprise;  human  performance  enhancement, sustainment,  and  optimization;  medical  response  to  aviation  and  operational  mishaps,  and chemical,  biological,  radiological,  or  nuclear  (CBRN)  events.    This  PD  implements  DoD Directive (DoDD) 6200.04, Force Health Protection;  DoDD 6490.02E, Comprehensive Health Surveillance;  and  the  policy  in  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  6130.03,  Medical  Standards  for Appointment, Enlistment, or Induction in the Military Services; DoDI 6465.1, Hemoglobin S and Erythrocyte  Glucose-6-Phosphate  Dehydrogenase  Deficiency  Testing  Program;  and  DoDI 6490.07,  Deployment-Limiting  Medical  Conditions  for  Service  Members  and  DoD  Civilian Employees.  It is consistent with the policy in AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health.  This the  Air  Reserve  Component.  Refer publication  applies  to recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,  Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed  in this publication are  maintained  in accordance with AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force (AF) at Schedule https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. the  regular  Air  Force  and Disposition Records (RDS) located   2  AFPD48-1  23 AUGUST 2011 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  PD  is  updated  to  reflect  changes  in  policy  dealing  with  Aerospace  Medicine.    The “Aerospace  Medicine  Program”  has  been  renamed  “The  Aerospace  Medicine  Enterprise”  to distinguish  the  overall  enterprise  from  the  individual  Aerospace  Medicine  programs.    The  six major  Aerospace  Medicine  Programs  are  identified  and  defined.    Human  performance sustainment, optimization, and enhancement are defined.  Subsequent supporting guidance to this PD  should  be  linked  to  the  four  effects-based  mission  areas  and  the  six  major  Aerospace Medicine programs. 1.  Policy.  The AME will: 1.1.  Promote  and  Sustain  a  Healthy  and  Fit  Force:    The  AME  will  provide  specific specialty  care  required  to  ensure  the  success  and  safety  of  specific  operators  and  missions including,  but  not  limited  to,  aviators  (manned  and  remotely  piloted  aircraft),  astronauts, missileers,  air  traffic  controllers,  personnel  enrolled  in  the  Personnel  Reliability  Program, select  combat  mission  ready  cyberspace  personnel,  and  certain  weapons  systems  operators.  This  expertise  will  further  include proactive  safety activities and  event-driven  investigations for those weapons systems and programs.  1.2.  Prevent  Illness  and  Injury:    The  AME  will  provide  activities  and  expertise  crucial  to casualty prevention and optimizing the safety and health of AF personnel in the performa nce of  their  duties  in  any  circumstance  or  location.    The  modern  workplace  can  be  a  complex environment  that  poses  a  variety  of  health  risks  to  AF  members  and  their  families.    AME personnel will  conduct threat  analyses, develop  mitigation strategies, advise  leadership, and educate  members.   AME personnel will plan and execute specific programs to  identify and mitigate  health  risks,  including  but  not  limited  to  those  associated  with  food  and  water, environment,  physical  factors,  fatigue,  communicable  diseases,  injury,  and  Chemical, Biological, Radiological, or Nuclear (CBRN) exposures and  to document potential exposure to  those  risks.  Additionally,  AME  personnel  will  oversee  and  execute  an  effective occupational  and  industrial  health  services  program,  to  include  mission  tailored  screening and  examinations  that  enhance  protection  of  AF  personnel  from  illness  or  injury  related  to their  workplace.    The  AME  will  employ  similar  principles  and  expertise  in  contingency planning  and  operations  to  assist  in  identification  and  mitigation  of  risks  to  enhance  force protection  and  sustain  effectiveness.    AME  personnel  will  have  appropriate  security clearance to provide these services to classified missions and personnel at their location.  1.3.  Restore Health:  The AME  will provide operational  health care that  includes, but  is  not limited  to:  casualty  care  and  management,  routine  health  care,  and  clinical  services  for families  under  any  circumstance  required  of  the  mission  and  in  compliance  with  Air  Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical  Operations.   The AME  will provide specific expertise  in the planning  and  execution  of  medical  responses  to  mishaps,  operational  incidents,  and  mass casualties, and  it will provide professional expertise  to ensure the safety and appropriateness of aeromedical evacuation of patients.  1.4.  Optimize  and  Sustain  Human  Performance:    Air  Force  personnel  are  the  most important  and  valuable  resource  for  the  AF.    The  Airman  is  a  human  weapon  system requiring  total  life-cycle support and  maintenance.  The  AME becomes a  force  multiplier by focusing on  human performance  in addition to  health care as a primary  means of supporting AFPD48-1  23 AUGUST 2011   3  the line of the AF.  Accordingly, the AME will provide advocacy and consultative support to ensure  the  early  integration  of  human  considerations  into  the  system  acquisition  process  to enhance  human/system  design,  reduce  future  life  cycle  costs,  and  optimize  total  system (human-hardware-software)  performance.    The  AME  will  research  and  employ  objective occupation  selection  criteria,  evidenced-based  medical  standards,  and the  tools  and techniques  necessary  to  sustain  the  levels  of  individual  physical  and  cognitive  performance planned  for and expected of the human components of weapon systems.  The  AME will also provide expertise to educate workers and leadership to design human-centered work practices and  solutions  that  ensure  worker  safety,  community  health,  and  environmental  protection during the development and employment of systems.  1.4.1.  The  human  weapon  system  construct performance areas defined as follows: leads to three interrelated  human Sustainment Performance through 1.4.1.1.  Human levels separation/retirement  with  the  goal  of  maintaining  target  performance throughout an  Airman’s career while  minimizing adverse  health effects.   Preventive medicine  is  a  major  contributor  to  performance  sustainment  because  physical  and mental  health  is  a  necessary  precursor  for  performance.    Accordingly,  performance sustainment encompasses health service support functions.  covers accession limited  human resources  by  comprehensively 1.4.1.2.  Human  Performance Optimization seeks to achieve the  most efficient  use of integrating  Airmen  with organizational and  technical systems.   It  goes well  beyond  human-machine  interface design  and  involves  deliberate  planning  to  efficiently  leverage  Airmen  through  the process of Human Systems Integration (HSI).  This area aligns both  line and  medical resources and objectives. 1.4.1.3.  Human  Performance  Enhance ment  enables  Airmen  to  operate  beyond currently  achievable  and  sustainable  performance is  chiefly accomplished  through  science  and  technology  initiatives  that  range  across  the spectrum  from  intra-human  (e.g.,  biotechnology  and  pharmacology)  to  extra- human (e.g.,  hardware  and  software)  in  accordance  with  acceptable  standards  of  medical practice and ethics. thresholds.   It 2.  These  four  key  mission  effects  are  accomplished  through  effective  management  of  six major Ae rospace Medicine programs: 2.1.  Flying,  Operational,  and  Special  Duty  Program:  The  purpose  of  the  Flying, Operational,  and  Special  Duty  Personnel  Program  is  to  optimize  the  health  and  sustain  the performance  of  aviation  (manned  and  unmanned),  missile,  nuclear,  select  combat  mission ready  cyberspace,  weapon  system  operators,  and  special  duty  personne l  in  support  of  the operational mission of the Air Force.  2.2.  Occupational  and  Environme ntal  Health  (OEH)  Program:  The  purpose  of  the  AF OEH  program  is  to  protect  military  and  civilian  employee  health  while  enhancing  combat and operational capabilities. 2.3.  Force  Health  Readiness  Program:  The  purpose  of  the  Medical  Force  Protection program  is  to  ensure  a  healthy  and  fit  force  and  to  maximize  operational  readiness  and performance.   4  AFPD48-1  23 AUGUST 2011 2.4.  Community  Health  Program:  The  purpose  of  the  Community  Health  Pro gram  is  to protect  the  military,  dependents  and  beneficiary  civilian  populations  from  infectious  and communicable diseases,  food borne  illnesses, and environmental  hazards that  may adversely impact the health of the community and degrade operational perfor mance. 2.5.  Human  Performance  Sustainment  Program:  The  purpose  of the  Human Performance  Sustainment  Program  is  to  sustain  the  performance  of  Airmen,  whether  in  the face  of  enemy  conflict,  environmental  threats  and  stressors,  or  advancing  age.    AME personnel will provide feedback and lessons learned on human performance shortfalls and/or emerging  threats  to  those  organizations  and  agencies  responsible  for  Human  Performance Optimization and Enhancement. 2.6.  Emergency  Response/Disaster  Management  Program:  The  purpose  of the Emergency  Response  and  Disaster  Management  program  is  the  timely  and  professional emergency  response  to  aviation,  operational,  mass  casualty,  and  CBRN  events  to  minimize adverse health consequences and preserve operational capabilities.  3.  Management  of  the  Aerospace  Medicine  programs  to  achieve  objectives  and  desired effects will follow established principles of program manage ment:  3.1.  Establish clear objectives and goals 3.2.  Define tasks and responsibilities necessary to achieve objectives  3.3.  Specify clear and reasonable timelines 3.4.  Ensure accountability 3.5.  Measure effectiveness of reaching the objectives and desired effects  3.6.  Redirect local plans, policy, and practices as needed to better achieve desired effects 4.  Subsequent  supporting  guidance  should  be  linked  to  these  four  effects  and  six  major Aerospace  Medicine  programs  as  well  as  present  and  future  Air  Force  Medical  Service (AFMS) enabling capabilities. 5.  As an AFMS enabling capability, the AME ensures that expertise is provided to establish and  maintain  pertinent,  mission orientated education programs and  provides a full  range of cons ultation services in support of the four  desired effects.  Members of the AME will be trained  to  high  levels  of  technical  skill,  and  will  be  specifically  trained  in  risk  analysis, communication  skills  and  operational  risk  management.    Selected  AME  personnel  will  be specifically  trained  in  systems  acquisition  including  researc h  and  development  activities  and programs. 6.  Responsibilities: 6.1.  The Assistant Secretary of  the Air Force  for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) serves as an agent of the Secretary and approves all policies concerning the AFMS. 6.2.  The Surgeon General (AF/SG) maintains the authority for medical program oversight.  Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force AFPD48-1  23 AUGUST 2011   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  Attachme nt 1 References DoDD 6200.04, Force Health Protection, October 9, 2004. DoDD 6490.02E, Comprehensive Health Surveillance, October 21, 2004. DoDI 6130.03, Medical Standards for Appointment, Enlistment, or Induction in the Military Services, April 28, 2010. DoDI 6465.1, Hemoglobin S and Erythrocyte Glucose-6- Phosphate Dehydrogenase Deficiency Testing Program, July 29, 1981. DoDI 6490.07, Deployment-Limiting Medical Conditions for Service Members and DoD Civilian Employees, February 5, 2010. AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health, September 27, 1993. AFPD 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear Weapons), March 15, 2007. AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, September 1, 1999. Adopted Form AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AME—Aerospace Medicine Enterprise AFMS—Air Force Medical Service CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, or Nuclear HSI—Human Systems Integration OEH—Occupational and Environmental Health PD—Policy Directive RDS—Records Disposition Schedule  