BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-22 25 AUGUST 2016 Special Management AIR FORCE COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the  e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/IEIM  Certified by: SAF/IE  (Ms. Miranda A.A. Ballentine, SES) Supersedes:  AFPD90-22, 24 July 2014 Pages: 6     This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) provides policy and assigns responsibility to guide Air Force  development  and  implementation  of  installation-community  partnerships  that  focus  on achieving  reduced  costs  or  reductions  in  risks  by  finding  shared  value,  to  include Intergovernmental  Support  Agreements  (IGSAs)  under  10  United  States  Code  (USC)  Section 2679.    This  publication  applies  to  Air  Force  military  members  and  civilian  employees, organizations in the Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and the Air  National Guard (ANG), and  contractor  support  personnel.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  rewrite  of  AFPD  90-22  is  in  response  to  user  feedback  and  process  improvements.    It updates references to  IGSA legislation;  further distinguishes Air Force Community Partnership (AFCP)  Executive  Steering  Group  (ESG)  and  Task  Force  roles  and  responsibilities;  and consolidates roles and responsibilities for Headquarters Air Force (HAF) offices. 2 AFPD90-22  25 AUGUST 2016  1.  Overview.  This  AFPD  establishes foundation and policy to enable the AFCP Program. the  necessary  overarching  oversight/management installation-community  partnerships. 2.  Policy.  The AFCP Program is an Air Force-wide initiative to develop, manage, oversee, and evaluate  Air  Force   The  effective  development, management, implementation, and evaluation of such partnerships can support the Air Force and community  partner  missions  and  retain  or  enhance  mission  viability  and  quality  of  life  for Airmen,  in  alignment  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SecAF)  priorities  for  taking  care  of Airmen and families.  The AFCP Program focuses primarily on achieving cost reduction and/or cost  avoidance,  reduced  risk,  and  enhanced  mission  efficiency  and  effectiveness  while  also providing mutual benefit to an installation and its surrounding community.  It is Air Force policy to: 2.1.  Maximize the effectiveness of installation-community partnership program management through proactive and sustained leadership at all levels, informed by a mutual understanding of  the  potential  efficiencies  and  economies  of  scale  to  be  gained,  risks  to  be  reduced, potential long-term impact to the installation mission, and/or potential secondary and tertiary effects within programs, career fields, and/or impact to quality of life and Air Force culture.  Acceptance  of  risk  in  this  arena  should  be  a  conscious  decision  in  that  the  length  of  a partnership will likely exceed the tenure of an individual installation commander. 2.2.  Ensure  installation  leaders  have  the  necessary  knowledge  and  tools  to  proactively identify  and  execute  community  partnership  opportunities.   Installation  leaders,  in coordination  with  stakeholders  throughout  the  Air  Force,  including  Airmen  and  their families,  should  assess  plans,  decisions,  and  existing  tools,  including  authorities,  related  to potential initiatives and implement installation-community partnerships that provide the best value to the government and its community partner(s).  “Best value,” as applied to the AFCP Program, is defined as enhancing the Air Force mission given a change in resources, more or less, that notably adds value to the mission given the resources expended and/or provides the greatest overall benefit. 2.3.  Foster and encourage proactive engagement and collaborative relationships by Air Force offices  with  internal  and  external  stakeholders;  such  relationships  are  of  paramount importance  to  sustaining  the  Air  Force’s  ability  to  conduct  its  mission.    Successful partnerships  require  establishing  and  maintaining  strong  relationships  between  Air  Force installations  and  identified  stakeholders,  including  Airmen  and  their  families,  other  federal agencies,  federally-recognized  tribes,  installation  tenants,  state  and  local  governments, nonprofit organizations and the private sector.  Community partnerships can result in formal agreements for goods or services that are mutually beneficial.  Community partnerships are grouped into two categories:  public-public partnerships and public-private partnerships. 2.4.  Leverage military installation and local community capabilities and resources to reduce operating and service costs (through cost avoidance and/or cost savings), or reduce risks, in support  of  the  Air  Force  mission,  culture,  and  Total  Force/Comprehensive  Airmen  Fitness.  Pursuit  of  a  particular  initiative  must  be  integrated  with  existing  and  potentially  new programs  and  must  rest  on  a  business  case  analysis  as  to  the  most  advantageous  course  of action for the Air Force.  Supporting actions include: AFPD90-22  25 AUGUST 2016 3 2.4.1.  Assess  plans,  decisions,  and  existing  tools,  including  authorities,  related  to potential installation-community partnership initiatives. 2.4.2.  Proactively identify and engage with internal and external stakeholders, including other  federal  agencies,  federally-recognized  tribes,  installation  tenants,  state  and  local governments,  non-profit  organizations  and  the  private  sector,  to  identify  potential services and resourcing opportunities. 2.4.3.  Identify  cross-functional  community  partnership  project mechanisms and prioritization for resourcing. implementation 2.4.4.  Support installation, Major Command (MAJCOM), and HAF functional lead(s) in identifying, prioritizing, and implementing initiatives that meet AFCP program strategic direction, goals and objectives. 2.5.  In coordination with stakeholders and HAF functional lead(s) throughout the Air Force, facilitate  identifying  and  developing  requirements  for  AFCP  Program  awareness  education and  training  material,  including  developing  communication  products,  education/training resources  and  curricula  to  increase  awareness  and  understanding  of  AFCP  issues  and strategies,  support  installation  and/or  functional  leads  in  implementing  initiatives,  and provide  resources/tools  for  initiative  implementation.    Such  products,  resources,  and curricula should be  coordinated with  affected Air Force offices in  accordance with  existing publications. 2.6.  Comply  with  all  laws  (Federal  and  State)  and  pertinent  White  House,  Office  of Management  and  Budget  and  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense/Department  of  Defense (DoD)  and  Air  Force  policies,  instructions,  and  publications  providing  guidance  related  to installation-community initiatives. 3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Installations,  Environment  and Energy (SAF/IE): 3.1.1.  Engages with functional managers to integrate AFCP Program concepts and tools (e.g. legal authorities, policy, process templates, communication products) into Air Force cross-functional programs and publications. 3.1.2.  May establish Air Force-wide policy with regard to community partnerships after receiving  input  from  all  affected  Air  Force  and  ANG  stakeholders  and  through recognized formal Air Force coordination processes. 3.1.3.  Develops  and  maintains  the  overarching  AFCP  Program  management/oversight policy.  In connection with these responsibilities, it is anticipated that SAF/IE will: 3.1.3.1.  Establish a cross-functional ESG or equivalent body to serve as the primary advisory  body  to  the  SecAF  and  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  for  the  AFCP Program, and in that capacity, the ESG assists in developing policy, providing subject matter  expertise,  and  recommending  strategies  for  developing  and  implementing partnership initiatives while ensuring long-term mission sustainment and consistency with Air Force strategic direction, policy, and goals. 4 AFPD90-22  25 AUGUST 2016 3.1.3.2.  Advocate  for  AFCP  Program  resources  throughout  the  Air  Force  Program Objective Memorandum (POM) process and contingent upon level-of-effort funding, help ensure that community partnership implementation actions across the Air Force are consistent with,  complement,  or enhance Air Force and HAF functional  mission capabilities and transformational initiatives and create value. 3.2.  All other Headquarters Air Force offices will: 3.2.1.  Ensure Air Force publications written within their area(s) of responsibility support this  AFPD,  including  identifying  procedures  when  that  guidance  includes  relevant elements of paragraph 2.3. of this AFPD. 3.2.2.  Provide  overall  management  of  their  own  subject-matter  content  consistent  with this AFPD and applicable DoD and Air Force policies. 3.2.3.  Assist with identifying mechanisms for use by installations and the AFCP Program to develop and implement initiatives. 3.2.4.  As applicable, provide implementation support and subject matter expertise for the AFCP Program through HAF, National Guard Bureau (NGB), Major Commands, Direct Reporting  Units,  Forward  Operating  Agency  and  AF  Installation  and  Mission  Support Center  capabilities,  as  well  as  at  the  installation  level  as  appropriate,  to  support installation-community initiatives. 3.2.5.  Provide  guidance  and  subject  matter  expertise  to  ensure  AFCP  initiatives  align with  applicable  laws  (Federal  and  State),  policies  and  guidance  within  each  subject-matter area. 3.2.6.  Lead  enterprise-wide  and/or  high-priority  HAF  initiatives  within  their  respective subject-matter areas as recommended by the ESG and/or requested by SAF/IEI. 3.2.6.1.  The NGB holds this leadership role for  ANG units.   NGB may  request  Air Force subject matter expert assistance for AFCP efforts. 3.2.7.  Ensure  that  execution  of  AFCP  initiatives  fully  support  Air  Force  mission  needs and  are  consistent  with  Air  Force  leadership  strategic  direction  and  priorities,  including taking care of Airmen and their families. 3.2.8.  Assess  and  evaluate  AFCP  program  impact(s)  on  their  own  subject-matter area/responsibilities (on an initiative-specific or enterprise-wide basis). 3.2.9.  Upon  SAF/IEI  request,  designate  a  representative  to  participate  on  cross-functional  groups  such  as  the  AFCP  ESG  and  any  applicable  task  forces  or  working groups.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force AFPD90-22  25 AUGUST 2016 5 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 10 USC § 2679, Installation support services: intergovernmental support agreements HAF Mission Directive 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Logistics), 10 July 2014 Adopted Form  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFCP—Air Force Community Partnership AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ANG—Air National Guard DoD—Department of Defense ESG—Executive Steering Group HAF—Headquarters Air Force, consisting of the Secretariat and the Air Staff IAW—In accordance with IGSA—Intergovernmental Support Agreement NGB—National Guard Bureau OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility POM—Program Objective Memorandum RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force USC—United States Code Terms Public-Public  Partnerships—Intergovernmental  relationships the  mutually beneficial  provision  of  goods  or  services  and  the  leveraging  of  resources  and  best  practices  to achieve cost efficiencies or risk reductions. that  enable   6 AFPD90-22  25 AUGUST 2016 Public-Private Partnerships—Agreements between military installations and the private sector (including either for-profit or not-for-profit entities) that enable the mutually beneficial provision of  goods  or  services  and  the  leveraging  of  resources  to  achieve  cost  efficiencies  or  risk reductions.  