Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 40-411 MAY 1994Medical CommandCLINICAL INVESTIGATION AND HUMANUSE IN MEDICAL RESEARCHNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ AFMOA/SGPT (Col Gerald J. Merritt) Supersedes AFPD 40-4, 22 July 1993.Certified by: HQ AFMOA/SG  (Brig Gen Peter F. Hoffman)Pages: 3Distribution: F1. Scientific studies are an essential component of medical practice, graduate medical education, and thedevelopment of leading edge technology to support Air Force missions.  Patients and healthy subjects areused in these studies.  Because such studies may expose subjects to risk, it is imperative these studies bewell-designed and that subjects are fully aware of, and give consent to participate in this research.  Thisdirective establishes policies for managing risk, ensuring informed consent, and assuring scientific valid-ity of these studies.2. The Air Force will establish a Clinical Investigation and Human Use Program (CIHUP) in human-uselaboratories, Clinical Investigation Facilities (CIF) and Medical Treatment Facilities (MTF) to conductscientific studies in support of Air Force aeronautical and or aeromedical missions.2.1. Human-Use Program Laboratories will be used to conduct research, development, test, and eval-uation (RDT&E ) studies that involve human subjects.2.2. The Air Force Medical Service will establish CIFs at MTFs to conduct scientific studies with thepotential to improve patient treatment, diagnosis, or well-being.  3. The Air Force will fully comply with all applicable Federal regulations to ensure the protection ofhuman subjects.3.1. All studies will use procedures which are consistent with scientifically valid research design andwhich do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk.3.1.1. Risk must be reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits and the importance of the knowl-edge that may be expected to result.3.2. A properly executed informed consent document will be obtained before involving a subject in astudy unless a waiver is obtained.4. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:  4.1. The US Air Force Surgeon General is responsible for policy and resource advocacy for theCIHUP.4.2. Headquarters Air Force Medical Operations Agency (HQ AFMOA) implements the US AirForce Surgeon General’s approved and directed policies.4.3. The major command (MAJCOM) surgeon and MAJCOM/CC are responsible for CIHUP sup-port and program compliance oversight for all CIHUP sites.4.4. The MTF Commander and Air Force Laboratory Director are responsible for implementing theCIHUP.5. Terms Explained:5.1. Clinical Investigation Facility. A specialized facility within an MTF for the conduct of system-atic investigations or studies designed by or with medical service personnel to develop or contribute togeneral medical knowledge involving humans.5.2. Human-Use Laboratory. A specialized facility principally designed to conduct studies onadvanced technology development and specialized operational support for the readiness, mainte-nance, protection, and extension of human capabilities in Air Force weapon systems and operations.6. This directive implements Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 219, Federal Policy for the Pro-tection of Human Subjects, June 18 1991; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 6000.8, Funding andAdministration of Clinical Investigation Programs, December 6, 1985; and DoD Directive 3216.2, Pro-tection of Human Subjects in DoD-Supported Research, January 7, 1983, with Changes 1 and 2.  Thisdirective requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974;Title 10, Armed Forces, United States Code (U.S.C.), Sections 1094, Licensure Requirements for Health-care Professionals; and 1102, Confidentiality of Medical Quality Assurance Records; Qualified Immunityfor Participants; and Title 5, Government Organizations and Employees, U.S.C.--in its entirety.7. Related guidance and procedures are in AFI 40-401, The Use of Animals in DoD Programs (formerlyAFR 169-2); AFI 40-402, The Use of Human Subjects in Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation(formerly AFR 169-3); and AFI 40-403, Clinical Investigation and Human Test Subjects in the MedicalService (formerly AFR 169-6).8. See Attachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.ALEXANDER M. SLOAN,   Lt General, USAF, MCSurgeon General 2MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICYAttachment 1 A1.1. The objective measure of overall compliance with policy is the number of completed studiesresulting in presentation and or publication (Figure A1.1.).  While the policy and instructions directapproval and review from within the Air Force, ultimate scientific value is determined through the presen-tation publication process.  This process subjects the study to peer review which leads to acceptance orrejection based on the quality of study design and relevance.A1.1.1. The number of clinical investigation studies which result in presentations and publicationsmatched to the number of studies completed (excluding National Cancer Institute-sponsored studies).National Cancer Institute studies are excluded since these are multicenter, nationwide studies whichdo not give single institution publication credit.A1.1.2. Data will be reported by local MTFs and laboratories and sent to HQ AFMOA/SGPT by 15January through RCS: HAF-SG(A)9309, Research Studies Resulting in Scientific Publications inPeer-Reviewed Journals. This report is designated emergency status code C1 Continue reporting dur-ing emergency conditions, priority precedence. Submit data requirements assigned this category asprescribed, or by any means to ensure arrival on the established due date.  Discontinue reporting dur-ing MINIMIZE. Measurements will be charted annually and compared against FY 92 baseline.Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Completed Studies Published/Presented.3