BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-6 18 MAY 2017 Special Management AIR FORCE STRATEGY, PLANNING, PROGRAMMING, BUDGETING, AND EXECUTION (SPPBE) PROCESS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/MGM   Certified by: SAF/MG  (Ms. Marilyn Thomas) Pages: 4     This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  implements  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force memorandum,  Delegations  of  Authority  for  the  Air  Force  Strategy,  Planning,  Programming, Budgeting,  and  Execution  (SPPBE)  Process,  dated  20  December  2016  and  supports  Air  Force implementation  of  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  7045.14,  The  Planning, Programming,  Budgeting,  and  Execution  (PPBE)  Process,  25  January  2013.  It  applies  to  all Total Force stakeholders (i.e. Active, Guard, Reserve, civilian, and contractor) of the Air Force Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (SPPBE) process. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate function’s chain of command. Ensure that all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  in  the  Air  Force  Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  1.  Overview.    This  publication  outlines  the  Air  Force’s  SPPBE  overarching  construct  and assigns  responsibilities  to  Air  Force  stakeholders  in  accordance  with  the  Secretary  of  the  Air Force  (SecAF)  memorandum,  Delegations  of  Authority  for  the  Air  Force  Strategy,  Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (SPPBE) Process, dated 20 December 2016.  2 AFPD90-6  18 MAY 2017 2.  Policy.  It is Air Force Policy that: 2.1.  The SPPBE process guides the Air Force alignment of resources to requirements while responding to policy and fiscal constraints from the Department of Defense (DoD). The Air Force  supports  the  DoD  in  facilitating  resources  and  prioritizing  capabilities  to  align equipment, manpower, and support that enables the DoD to make fiscally sound decisions in support  of  the  National  Security  Strategy  and  National  Defense  Strategy.  Department  of Defense Directive 7045.14, The Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) Process,  establishes  and  outlines  DoD’s  prescribed  PPBE  process  to  develop,  validate, approve, and implement fiscally sound decisions. 2.2.  The  Air  Force  SPPBE  process  consists  of  five  distinct,  but  overlapping  phases:  Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution. 2.2.1.  Strategy  provides  guiding  principles  to  influence  and  inform  decisions  related  to organizational structures, planning, programming, acquisition, and requirements. Strategy identifies major vector changes necessary to direct how we organize, train and equip, and provide the future force. 2.2.2.  Planning translates Strategy into an integrated, balanced, and prioritized Air Force Plan to  guide Capability Development,  Programming,  Budgeting, and shape  Leadership strategic communications. 2.2.3.  Programming  allocates  Future  Year(s)  Defense  Program  resources  guided  by  the Air  Force  Plan,  Congress,  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD),  Fiscal  Guidance, and Fact-of-Life changes; and reinforces the Air Force strategic message. 2.2.4.  Budgeting updates Program Objective Memorandum (POM) pricing, applies Fact-of-Life  changes  and  economic  assumptions,  incorporates  Office  of  Management  and Budget-/OSD-directed changes, codifies justification, and defends the budget to Congress consistent with the Air Force strategic message. 2.2.5.  Execution expends the resources as appropriated by Congress, consistent with Air Force Strategy. 2.3.  In  implementing  the  policies  established  in  this  directive  and  to  promote  a  cohesive SPPBE process, it is essential that Air Force SPPBE policy and procedures be codified and centrally  managed.  The  SPPBE  process  must  be  executed  in  a  consistent  and  standardized fashion  with  clearly  defined  requirements,  definitions,  work  products,  and  roles  and responsibilities.  Similarly,  any  process  improvements  must  be  carefully  and  uniformly managed.  To  this  end,  the  Deputy  Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Management (SAF/MG),  will document  the Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting,  and Execution phases  to  establish  a  consistent  and  standardized  SPPBE  process  with  clearly  defined requirements, definitions, work products, and roles and responsibilities. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  SAF/MG shall: 3.1.1.  Be  responsible  for  overseeing  the  development,  evaluation,  maintenance,  and process improvement of SPPBE procedural policy. AFPD90-6  18 MAY 2017 3 3.1.2.  Publish one or more instructions to implement the policies set forth herein, which will formally document the Air Force’s SPPBE processes. 3.1.2.1.  Align  SPPBE-relevant  Air  Force  instructions,  delegations,  statutes,  and policies, rescinding and replacing previously published guidance, as necessary. 3.1.2.2.  Provide  opportunity  for  strategic  participation  by  Headquarters  Air  Force (HAF) horizontal integrators and Core Function Leads (CFL). 3.1.2.3.  Ensure Secretariat involvement at each phase of the SPPBE process. 3.1.3.  Initiate any SPPBE process improvement activities, actively seeking opportunities to maximize efficiencies, reduce duplication of effort, and optimize timeliness. 3.1.4.  Solicit,  review,  and  provide  impact  assessment  of  process  change  requests submitted  by  key  stakeholders  prior  to  implementing  organizational  changes,  role changes, responsibility changes, work product changes, and process changes. Coordinate requests with  and gain approval of the SPPBE process key stakeholders (e.g., SAF/FM, AF/A5/8) to ensure unity of effort and prevent unintentional procedural redundancies or oversights. 3.1.4.1.  Utilize  a  2-Letter  Integrated  Process  Team  to  facilitate  pre-AF  Council meetings/decisions  related  to  HAF/MAJCOM/CFL  business  rules  applicable  to SPPBE. 3.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A5/8) shall be responsible and  accountable  to  the  SecAF  for  spearheading  and  managing  the  efficient,  timely,  and responsive corporate conduct of the Strategy, Planning, and Programming phases. 3.3.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Financial  Management  and  Comptroller (SAF/FM), shall: 3.3.1.  Be responsible and accountable to the SecAF for spearheading and managing the efficient,  timely,  and  responsive  corporate  conduct  of  the  Budgeting  and  Execution phases. 3.3.2.  Provide,  on  behalf  of  the  SecAF,  appropriate  fiscal  oversight  of  the  Air  Force programming  function,  consistent  with  SAF/MG  implementing  procedural  guidance,  to ensure compliance with Federal law.  LISA S. DISBROW Acting Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD90-6  18 MAY 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 DoDD 7045.14, The Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) Process, January 25, 2013 SecAF memorandum, Delegations of Authority for the Air Force Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (SPPBE) Process, December 20, 2016 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System CFL—Core Function Lead CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force DoD—Department of Defense FM—Financial Management and Comptroller HAF—Headquarters Air Force MAJCOM—major command OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense POM—Program Objective Memorandum PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SPPBE—Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution  