 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-5 1 JUNE 2015 Personnel CIVILIAN PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1C  Supersedes:   AFPD 36-5, 30 November 1993 Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 4   This policy directive implements the requirements of Title 5, United States Code, as it pertains to the  civilian  personnel  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.    It  implements  and  complies  with DoDD  1400.25,  DoD  Civilian  Personnel  Management  System;  DoDD  1400.31  Mobilization Management  of  the DoD Civilian Work Force;  and DoDD 1404.10  Emergency-Essential (E-E) DoD  US  Citizen  Employees.    This  directive  establishes  the  basic  policies  for  implementing, controlling, and assessing civilian personnel programs.  It applies to Air Force Title 5 and Title 10  civilian  employees,  Air  Force  Reserve  employees,  and  Air  National  Guard  employees.    It does not apply to Title 32 Air National Guard technicians.  In  collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve,  (AF/RE),  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard,  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (AF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for  civilian  personnel  resource  management.    This publication  may  not  be  supplemented.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this directive  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847, Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,  and disposed of in  accordance with  the  Air  Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   2  AFPD36-5  1 JUNE 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision incorporates established roles and responsibility of SAF/MR, clarifies requirements for  AF  civilian  employment  plans,  updates  organizational  office  symbols,  and  removes  policy concerning use of occupational skill codes. 1.  Overview 1.1.  Effective  management  of  civilian  personnel  resources  within  the  budget  is  critical  for sustaining  air  and  space  forces  to  support  national  security  objectives.    This  Directive establishes policies for effective management and mobilization of civilian resources. 1.2.  The  Air  Force  shall  ensure  that  civilian  resources  are  managed  without  unlawful discrimination  because  of  race,  color,  religion,  sex  (including  pregnancy),  national  origin, age  (40  or  older),  disability,  genetic  information,  or  prior  equal  employment  opportunity (EEO) activity. 2.  Policy 2.1.  The  Air  Force  will  manage  its  civilian  personnel  to  ensure  a  sufficient  number  of qualified employees are available to meet worldwide mission requirements during periods of national emergency, mobilization, war, military crisis, or other contingency. 2.2.  In managing civilian personnel resources, the Air Force will stay within its civilian pay budget  by  balancing  economy  and  efficiency  of  operations;  position  structures,  skills,  and career  paths;  employee  development  and  motivation;  and  recruitment  and  retention  of competent personnel. 2.3.  The Air Force supports the principle of equal pay for substantially equal work through proper,  timely,  and  accurate  classification  of  positions;  and  timely  address  position classification appeals. 2.4.  The  Air  Force  will  measure  compliance  with  civilian  human  resource  management policies  by  reviewing  execution  of  civilian  resources  against  annual  civilian  employment plans  (CEP)  and  by  measuring  classification  accuracy  and  the  ability  to  meet  mission requirements during periods of national emergency. 2.5.  Air Force managers are responsible for developing plans to execute civilian pay dollars and  work  years,  for  implementing  those  plans,  and  for  making  appropriate  adjustments  to those plans as changes in funding and employment needs occur. 2.6.  Air  Force  managers,  normally  first-line  supervisors,  are  responsible  for  the  correct identification  of  duties  and  responsibilities  which  are  written  into  position  descriptions  and for  ensuring  that  those  are  the  duties  actually  accomplished  by  employees.    Position descriptions establish required qualifications for positions and resulting salaries. AFPD36-5  1 JUNE 2015   3  3.  Roles and Responsibilities 3.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary  and  provides  guidance,  direction,  and  oversight  for  all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets addressing civilian personnel management. 3.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services  (AF/A1),  and  the Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Financial  Management  and  Comptroller,  (SAF/FM) jointly  develop,  defend,  and  coordinate  civilian  personnel  funding  and  utilization;  allocate manpower  resources;  and  forecast,  execute,  and  adjust  civilian  personnel  budgets  in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense and the Office of Management and Budget. 3.3.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops, coordinates,  and  executes  civilian  personnel  policy  and  approves  essential  procedural guidance for the management of the civilian personnel resource management programs.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD36-5  1 JUNE 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References 5 USC, Chapter 51, Classification, Sections 5101 through 5115) 5 USC, Chapter 53, Pay Rates and Systems, Sections 5301 through 5392  DoDD 1200.7 Screening the Ready Reserve April 6, 1984 DoDD 1400.31 Mobilization Management of the DoD Civilian Work Force, September 9, 1986 DoDI 1400.25, Civilian Personnel Management System: Classification Program, Vol. 511, March 31, 2010 DoDI 1400.32 Mobilization Preparedness Planning for DoD US Citizen Civilian Work Force, January 15, 1987 DoDD 1404.10 Emergency-Essential (E-E) DoD US Citizen Employees, April 10, 1992 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, September 25, 2013  AFMAN 33-36, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, September 22, 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms CEP—Civilian Employment Plan EEO—Equal Employment Opportunity DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction  