 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-2  11 SEPTEMBER 2015 Special Management INSPECTOR GENERAL--THE INSPECTION SYSTEM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   SAF/IGI (Mr. OJ Padeway)  Supersedes:   AFPD90-2, 26 April 2006 Certified by: SAF/IG (Lt Gen Gregory A. Biscone) Pages: 5   This Directive establishes policy for the Air Force Inspection System in accordance with Title 10 U.S.C.  Section  8020  and  Title  32  U.S.C.  Section  105  and  applies  to  all  Air  Force  uniformed personnel (Regular, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard (ANG)) and civilian personnel.  Inspection  is  an  inherent  function  of  command  exercised  at  every  level  to  continually  evaluate readiness,  effectiveness,  economy,  efficiency,  compliance,  performance,  surety,  and  state  of discipline.    The  inspection  system  gives  SECAF,  CSAF  and  commanders  at  all  levels  an independent assessment of a unit’s compliance with established directives and ability to execute its  assigned  mission,  leadership  effectiveness,  management  performance,  and  aspects  of  unit culture  and  command  climate.    It  also  assesses  a  unit’s  ability  to  find,  analyze,  report  and  fix deficiencies, and an organization’s ability to prevent fraud and minimize waste and abuse. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance with  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  is  revised  to  include:  adding  AF/JA  to  the  membership  of  the  Intelligence Oversight  Panel  (IOP);  removing  references  to  Operational  Readiness  Inspections  (ORI)  and   2  AFPD90-2  11 SEPTEMBER 2015 Compliance Inspections (CI) and replacing them with the Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI); adding the Air Force Gatekeeper responsibility to SAF/IG. 1.  Policy.  This Air Force Policy Directive creates the necessary overarching structure to enable and execute the Air Force  Inspection System (AFIS)  efficiently  and  effectively. The  AFIS is  a single  coherent,  integrated, and synchronized system of inspections  conducted on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), and commanders at all levels.  The Air Force will: 1.1.  Evaluate  the  state  of  discipline,  economy,  efficiency,  readiness,  and  resource management through the use of AFIS. 1.2.  Not prepare for inspections.  Inspection preparation is inherently wasteful if not directly aligned  with  mission  readiness.    Units  are  inspection  ready  when  commanders  focus  on mission readiness. 1.3.  Build a culture of disciplined compliance in which every Airman does his/her job right the first time and when no one is looking.  Airmen should possess the courage and discipline to  inform  commanders  when  he/she  is  unable  to  do  the  job  due  to  deficient  resources  or guidance. 1.4.  Continuously improve the AFIS so there is an ever shrinking difference—both real and perceived—between mission readiness and inspection readiness. 2.  Responsibilities. 2.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General (SAF/IG) will: 2.1.1.  Assess the readiness, discipline, efficiency, and economy of the Air Force and the Air  National  Guard,  and  report  findings  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  Air Force Chief of Staff. 2.1.2.  Chair the Intelligence Oversight (IO) Panel. Members consist of SAF/IG, General Counsel  (SAF/GC),  The  Judge  Advocate  General  (AF/JA),  and  the  Director  of Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  (AF/A2).  The  IO  Panel  will  meet biannually or when necessary, as determined by the panel members. 2.1.3.  Authorize  MAJCOM  IGs  to  conduct  Unit  Effectiveness  Inspections  (UEI)  on gained ANG units. 2.1.4.  Serve  as  the  Gatekeeper  for  all  inspections,  evaluations,  assessments,  and  other inspection-related  visits  (including  audits  and  inquiries)  conducted  by  outside  entities (Office  of  the  Inspector  General,  Department  of  Defense  [OIG,  DoD];  Government Accountability  Office  [GAO];  and  others).    SAF/IG  will  coordinate,  to  the  maximum extent  practicable,  the  activities  of  those  organizations  to  allow  the  development  of timely, accurate, and useful information with the least disruption to the affected unit(s). AFPD90-2  11 SEPTEMBER 2015   3  2.2.  IG Appointment: 2.2.1.  MAJCOM  commanders  and  the  Chief,  National  Guard  Bureau  (CNGB)  will appoint  an  Inspector  General  for  their  organization  who  is  directly  responsible  to  the commander for carrying out assigned responsibilities. 2.2.2.  Direct  Reporting  Unit  and  Field  Operating  Agency  commanders  who  do  not appoint an IG must ensure IG duties and responsibilities are specified in the Host/Tenant Support Agreement. 2.3.  MAJCOM Commanders will: 2.3.1.  Establish  inspection  programs  consistent  with  mission  requirements  to  assess  Air Force and ANG unit readiness, compliance with directives, and nuclear surety/safety (as applicable) within AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, prescribed timelines and conduct other inspections required by law, as deemed necessary by the Commander, or as outlined. 2.3.2.  Appoint  a  MAJCOM  Gatekeeper  responsible  for  ensuring  the  notification  of evaluations  by  all  Air  Force  and  non-Air  Force  agencies,  determining  evaluation  man-days for each MAJCOM installation, and tracking actual versus planned evaluation man-days, as outlined in AFI 90-201. 2.4.  Air  Force  Safety  Center,  Weapons  Division    (AFSEC/SEW)  will  review  Nuclear Surety Inspection (NSI) procedures, criteria, and evaluation frequency for publication in AFI 90-201. 2.5.  Air  National  Guard  (ANG) will establish an IG function to liaise with Air Force and gaining MAJCOMs regarding inspection matters unique to the ANG. 2.6.  Air  Force  Inspection  Agency  (AFIA) will  conduct  inspections/assessments  and management  reviews  as  directed  by  the  SAF/IG.  AFIA,  in  coordination  with  Air  Force Inspections  Directorate  (SAF/IGI),  provides  oversight  assessments  to  MAJCOM/CCs  and The Inspector General (TIG) on the consistency of MAJCOM nuclear surety inspections, as described  in  AFI  90-201.  For  NSIs,  AFIA  also  conducts  trend  analysis,  assesses  the sufficiency  of  corrective  actions  to  inspection  findings,  and  provides  finding  status  and metrics to personnel in the AF nuclear surety arena. Likewise, AFIA is the AF clearinghouse for MAJCOM responses to Defense Threat Reduction Agency inspection deficiencies. 2.7.  See AFI 90-201 for additional specific responsibilities. 3.  The inspection footprint on Air Force installations should be minimized commensurate with  command  requirements.  The  use  of  sampling  techniques,  combined/multi-MAJCOM inspections,  credit  for  unit  activity  in  conjunction  with  exercises  and  contingencies,  and  other efficient assessment measures are encouraged. 4.  This policy directive is the antecedent for implementation instructions contained in AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System. Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD90-2  11 SEPTEMBER 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References  AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 21 Apr 15 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08 CJCSI 3263.05B, Nuclear Weapons Technical Inspections, 17 Nov 14 Title 10 United States Code § 8020, Inspector General, 27 Sep 2014 Title 32 United States Code § 105, Inspection, 30 Jul 1977 Prescribed Forms  None.  Adopted Forms  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  AFI—Air Force Instruction AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency AFIS—Air Force Inspection System AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records and Information Management System AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center ANG—Air National Guard CC—Commander CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force DoD—Department of Defense DRU—Direct Reporting Unit DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency FOA—Field Operating Agency GAO—Government Accountability Office GSU—Geographically Separated Unit HQ USAF or HAF—Headquarters Air Force, includes the Secretariat and the Air Staff IAW—In Accordance With AFPD90-2  11 SEPTEMBER 2015   5  IG—Inspector General IGI—Inspections Directorate IO—Intelligence Oversight JA—Judge Advocate MAJCOM—Major Command NAF—Numbered Air Force NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility OIG—Office of the Inspector General OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense RegAF—Regular Air Force SAF—Secretary of the Air Force (Secretariat) SE—Safety SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force TIG—The Inspector General (SAF/IG) TJAG—The Judge Advocate General Terms Nuclear  Surety  Inspection  (NSI)—A  compliance-based  inspection  conducted  to  evaluate  a unit’s ability to manage nuclear resources while complying with all nuclear surety standards. Regular Air Force (RegAF)—Regular Air Force is the component of the Air Force that consists of  persons  whose  continuous  service  on  active  duty  in  both  peace  and  war  is  contemplated  by law, and of retired members of the Regular Air Force.  