 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-2 23 JUNE 2015 Personnel CIVILIAN RECRUITMENT AND PLACEMENT  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1C  Supersedes:   AFPD 36-2, 15 April 2008 Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 6   This  publication  implements  Air  Force  policy  on  civilian  recruitment  and  placement.  It implements  and  complies  with  DoDD  1400.5,  DoD  Policy  for  Civilian  Personnel,  DoDD 1400.25, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, DoDD 1440.1, The DoD Civilian Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Program, DoDI 1400.20, DoD Program for Stability of Civilian Employment, DoDI 1400.24, Civilian Mobility Program, DoDI 1402.01, Employment of Retired Members  of  the  Armed  Forces,  and  DoDI  1404.12,  Employment  of  Spouses  of  Active  Duty Military  Members  Stationed  Worldwide.  This  directive  applies  to  appropriated-fund  civilian employees, including United States Air Forc Reserve and Air National Guard Title 5 employees.  It does not apply to Title 32 Air National Guard technicians. In  collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve  (AF/RE)  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy related to civilian recruitment and placement programs.  This includes  the  civilian  Career  Field  Management  Program;  executes  civilian  personnel  and  pay policies  and  procedures  and  provides  program  guidance  and  spending  limits  on  recruitment, relocation  and  retention  incentives  in  accordance  with  Secretary  of  Defense  and  Office  of Management and Budget requirements.  This publication may not be supplemented. Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   2  AFPD36-2  23 JUNE 2015 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision adds major and combatant command, and equivalent, roles and responsibilities. It updates  Attachment  1,  Glossary  of  References  and  Supporting  Documents,  by  deleting  and updating the reference information and acronyms.  1.  Overview 1.1.  This  directive  provides  policy  guidance  for  staffing  civilian  positions  with  highly qualified  members  of  the  civilian  labor  force  for  the  purpose  of  sustaining  a  superior  Air Force. 2.  Policy 2.1.  The Air Force shall implement civilian personnel recruitment and placement programs in full compliance with merit systems principles; in full recognition of prohibited personnel practices;  and  in  full  support  of  veterans’  special  rights  and  privileges  for  Federal  civil service employment. 2.2.  The  Air  Force  shall  ensure  that  positions  are  filled  based  on  merit  and  qualifications without unlawful discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, or prior EEO activity.  The Air  Force  shall  provide  a  workplace  free  of  sexual  harassment  for  all  employees.  The  Air Force  will  not  discriminate  based  on  reserve  component  membership/participation  (Note:  When  filling  an  Air  Reserve  Technician  (ART)  position,  ART  reserve  membership requirements apply). 2.3.  Consistent with Federal law and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) requirements, the Air Force shall develop and implement recruitment strategies that assure a diverse Air Force  workforce while providing equal opportunities to all races and ethnicities, both sexes and to individuals with disabilities at all grades or pay bands, in every employment category and in every major organizational element. 2.4.  The Air Force shall fill positions from appropriate sources consistent with the priorities established by law, regulation, or higher authority. 2.5.  The  Air  Force  shall  implement  a  merit  promotion  program  through  which  it  shall identify,  evaluate,  qualify,  and  select  candidates  for  promotion  using  solely  job-related criteria based on legitimate position requirements. The merit promotion program ensures the Air  Force  is  able  to  draw  from  applicant  pools  of  highly  qualified,  diverse  candidates  for promotions to positions at all levels. 2.6.  Managers  or  supervisors  shall  not  select  a  relative  for  a  position  anywhere  in  the organization under his  or her jurisdiction or control.  Additionally, a relative of a manager, supervisor,  or  other  public  official  having  the  authority  to  appoint,  employ,  promote,  or advance  persons  or  to  recommend  this  action  may  not  be  selected  for  a  position  in  the manager’s  or  supervisor’s  organization  or  subordinate  organizations  by  other  managers  or supervisors. 2.7.  The Air Force shall utilize part-time employment, including job sharing. AFPD36-2  23 JUNE 2015   3  2.8.  The  Air  Force  shall  hire  experts  and  consultants  to  accomplish  mission  requirements when  highly  specialized  individuals  cannot  be  obtained  through  documented  recruitment sources. 2.9.  In foreign overseas areas, the Air Force shall employ a civilian manpower mix of U.S. citizens  and  local  nationals  that  provides  the  best  financial  value  to  the  Air  Force,  ensures conformance with host country international agreements or treaties, considers availability of qualified local national personnel, and maximizes career opportunities for U.S. citizens. The Air  Force  shall  adhere  to  and  enforce  the  DoD  policy  limiting  the  employment  of  U.S. citizens in foreign overseas areas to five years. 2.10.  Air Force shall decide whether a Reduction in  Force  (RIF) is  necessary, when it will take  place,  and  what  positions  are  to  be  abolished.  Separation  incentives,  such  as  the Voluntary  Separation  Incentive  Program  (VSIP)  and  Voluntary  Early  Retirement  Authority (VERA),  shall  be  judiciously  used  with  other  RIF  avoidance  actions  such  as  curtailing recruitment and the reassignment of employees to vacant positions. 2.11.  The  DoD  Priority  Placement  Program  (PPP)  is  the  primary  means  to  minimize  the adverse  effects  on  employees  caused  by  RIF,  base  closure,  realignments,  consolidations, contracting  out,  position  classification  decisions,  rotation  from  overseas,  and  transfers  of function. Air Force supports and shall ensure that all commanders, managers and supervisors comply  with  the  spirit,  letter  and  intent  of  the  PPP  by  the  timely  counseling,  registration, matching, selecting and release of impacted PPP registrants. 2.12.  The  Air  Force  shall  establish  civilian  career  fields  to  facilitate  hiring,  development, advancement, and sustainment of the highest quality civilian workforce possible within merit principles guidelines. The career field approach provide the necessary processes and tools to develop  career  civilians  who  possess  the  right  professional,  technical,  managerial,  and administrative competencies to satisfy Air Force needs. 2.13.  The  Air  Force  shall  support  Title  5  civilian  employees  in  GS  and  FWS  and  alternate pay  systems  by  the  appropriate  use  of  compensation  for  new  appointments,  reemployment, voluntary  and  involuntary  separations,  conversions  and  transfers,  promotions,  changes  to lower grade, pay retention, voluntary and involuntary movements between pay systems, etc. 2.14.  The  Air  Force  may  use  recruitment  and  relocation  incentives  and  student  loan repayment  to  help  recruit  new  employees  and  relocate  current  employees  to  positions  that would  be  difficult  to  fill  in  the  absence  of  an  incentive.  The  Air  Force  may  use  retention incentives to help retain employees with unusually high or unique qualifications or who are fulfilling  a  special  need  that  makes  it  essential  to  retain  the  employee  when  the  employee would likely leave the Federal service in the absence of an incentive. Management officials at all levels must consider all pay-setting factors including the short- and long-term financial consequences of pay decisions prior to approving an incentive. 3.  Responsibilities 3.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) shall serve as an agent of the Secretary and provide guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets addressing civilian recruitment, placement, and pay.   4  AFPD36-2  23 JUNE 2015 3.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) develops policy, manages programs, and prepares guidance on approved policies and plans related to the management of  recruitment  and  placement  of  all  civilian  employees,  including  the  Civilian  Career  Field Management Program. 3.3.  Major command (MAJCOM), Combatant Commanders, and equivalent Secretariat and Air  Staff  officials  are  responsible  for  management  and  oversight  of  civilian  relocation, recruitment  and  retention  incentives  within  assigned  civilian  pay  budgets.    Endorse requirements  of  the  priority  placement  program  ensuring  prompt  placement  of  qualified individuals  to  vacant  positions.  Ensure  compliance  with  merit  systems,  equal  opportunity, and diversity principles within assigned organizations as outlined in this Policy Directive.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force AFPD36-2  23 JUNE 2015   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD 1400.5, DoD Policy for Civilian Personnel,12 January 2005 DoDD 1440.1, The DoD Civilian Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Program, 21 November 2003 DoDD 1400.25, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, 25 November 1996 (Certified as Current as of 1 December 2003) DoDI 1400.20, DoD Program for Stability of Civilian Employment, 26 September 2013 DoDI 1400.24, Civilian Mobility Program, 17 February 2006 (Certified Current as of 1 December 2010) DoDI 1402.01, Employment of Retired Members of the Armed Forces, 9 September 2007 DoDI 1404.12, Employment of Spouses of Active Duty Members Stationed Worldwide, 12 January 1989 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction EEO—Equal Employment Opportunity EEOC—Equal Employment Opportunity Commission FWS—Federal Wage System GS—General Schedule AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel OPM—Office of Personnel Management PPP—Priority Placement Program RIF—Reduction in Force SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs U.S.—United States   6  AFPD36-2  23 JUNE 2015 VERA—Voluntary Early Retirement Authority VSIP—Voluntary Separation Incentive Program  