BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 14-1 2 APRIL 2004IntelligenceINTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, ANDRECONNAISSANCE (ISR) PLANNING,RESOURCES, AND OPERATIONSNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ USAF/ XOIIR  (Mr. Albert J. Starnes) Supersedes AFPD 14-1, 1 June 1999, and AFPD 10-22, 1 December 1998 Certified by: HQ USAF/XOI(Maj Gen Ronald F. Sams)Pages: 4Distribution: FThis Policy Directive provides guidance for ISR planning and operations. It implements DoD Directive5100.1, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication updates infor-mation to reflect the realignment of Air Force information operations and command and control forces.Accordingly, it removes references to Air Intelligence Agency as a Field Operating Agency of HQ USAF/XOI, since it has been realigned as a Primary Subordinate Unit to Air Combat Command. It also assignsresponsibilities to HQ USAF/XI concerning Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intel-ligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) integration and innovation. References and terms thatno longer apply to this AFPD or appear herein have been deleted from the Glossary (Attachment 1). Def-initions have been updated to reflect those listed in the most recent versions of their references (Attach-ment 1). Other changes are administrative in nature. 1.  Intelligence is essential to maintaining aerospace power. Accordingly, the Air Force will provide pre-mier intelligence products and services to its aerospace customers (warfighters, policy makers, acquisi-tion managers, etc.). The focus will be on maintaining a seamless flow of accurate, timely intelligence todecision-makers at all levels. To this end, the Air Force will: 1.1.  Achieve horizontal integration of manned, unmanned, and space-based ISR systems to produceexecutable decision-quality knowledge in near real-time. 1.2.  Establish Predictive Battlespace Awareness (i.e., target development, course of action assess-ment, ISR battle management) as the core skill set for Air Force ISR personnel. 1.3.  Sustain readiness by developing and maintaining a force structure with the proper rank and spe-cialty allocations of military and civilian personnel, training and educating mission-ready profession-als, regularly exercising wartime system capabilities, and equipping and maintaining an infrastructurecapable of supporting high operations tempo levels. 2AFPD14-1   2 APRIL 20041.4.  Integrate information operations (IO) concepts and objectives into intelligence planning andresource allocation activities. 1.5.  Maximize use of national and joint intelligence production resources through cooperation andcollaboration, while also thoroughly engaging in the design and establishment of a Department ofDefense-wide virtual production capability. 1.6.  Provide specialized products and services to Air Force and other operational forces, complement-ing services provided by the rest of the Intelligence Community (IC). 1.7.  Invest in technology, focusing on applications that will upgrade exploitation and analysis fordecision-maker needs. Maximize capabilities to seamlessly interoperate with Air Force customers aswell as other services and agencies. 1.8.  Embed intelligence into Air Force acquisition programs to ensure early and sustained supportthroughout the life of a program. 1.9.  Foster strong relationships with allied partners to maximize the exchange of intelligence infor-mation in support of mutual interests. 1.10.  Respect the rights of US citizens, carefully heeding the rules and procedures in intelligenceoversight-associated laws and directives. 2.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities: 2.1.  The Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, Deputy Chief of Staff for Airand Space Operations (HQ USAF/XOI), oversees implementation of Air Force strategy, policy, andguidance governing ISR operations. HQ USAF/XOI is the Air Force’s Senior Official of the Intelli-gence Community in accordance with E.O. 12333 and Director of Central Intelligence Directives. Inthis capacity, XOI serves as the senior Air Force official on the Military Intelligence Board and repre-sents the AF within the national intelligence community. XOI also oversees the programming andexecution of resources for Air Force activities funded by the National Foreign Intelligence Program(NFIP), the Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities (TIARA), and Joint Military Intelligence Pro-gram (JMIP) aggregations. 2.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Warfighting Integration (HQ USAF/XI) is responsible for aggregatingCommand, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance(C4ISR) information and producing detailed communications and information systems architectures.HQ USAF/XI also represents the Air Force on C4ISR integration matters with other services, agen-cies, Joint Staff, OSD, and other outside organizations. 3.  This policy directive applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, to include AF Reserve andAir National Guard. 4.  See Attachment 1 for references and supporting information. JAMES G. ROCHE Secretary of the Air Force AFPD14-1   2 APRIL 20043Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References Executive Order No. 12333, United States Intelligence Activities DoD Directive 5100.1, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components DoD Directive-S3600.1, Information Warfare Joint Pub 1-02, The Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms Joint Pub 2-0, Joint Doctrine for Intelligence Support to Operations Joint Vision 2020 Joint Military Intelligence Training Center, An Intelligence Resource Manager's Guide  AFDD 2.5.2, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence Information AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation Air Combat Command Mission Directive 206, Volume 1, Air Intelligence Agency Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air Combat Command AF—Air Force AIA—Air Intelligence Agency FOA—Field Operating Agency IC—Intelligence Community IO—Information Operations ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance JMIP—Joint Military Intelligence Program NFIP—National Foreign Intelligence Program OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense PBA—Predictive Battlespace Awareness PSU—Primary Subordinate Unit TIARA—Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities XI—Deputy Chief of Staff, Warfighting Integration XOI—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and SpaceOperations 4AFPD14-1   2 APRIL 2004Terms Information Operations (IO)—Actions taken to affect adversary information and information systemswhile defending one’s own information and information systems. (JP 1-02). The Air Force believes that inpractice a more useful working definition is: Those actions taken to gain, exploit, defend or attackinformation or information systems and include both information-in-warfare and information warfare.{Italicized definition applies only to the Air Force and is offered for clarity.} (Ref: AFDD 2-5) Intelligence—The product resulting from the collection, processing, integration, analysis, evaluation, andinterpretation of available information concerning foreign countries or areas. Ref: Joint Pub 1-02. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)—The capability to collect, process, exploit anddisseminate accurate and timely information that provides the battlespace awareness necessary tosuccessfully plan and conduct operations. National Foreign Intelligence Program (NFIP)—The consolidation of funding programs that providethe resources needed to develop and maintain capabilities to serve the intelligence needs of nationalpolicy makers. The NFIP funds the national level intelligence activities of national civilian and defenseintelligence agencies, the Director of Central Intelligence staff elements, military intelligence,cryptologic, foreign counter-intelligence, and reconnaissance activities, and intelligence programs ofother federal departments. Surveillance—The systematic observation of aerospace, surface or subsurface areas, places, persons, orthings, by visual, aural, electronic, photographic, or other means. Ref: Joint Pub 2-0. Reconnaissance—A mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods,information about the activities and resources of an adversary or potential adversary, or to secure dataconcerning the meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. Ref: JointPub 2-0. Virtual Production—The coordinated production of intelligence by multiple, physically separatedorganizations collaborating electronically in a fluid environment. (Ref: Program Manager's GuidanceMemorandum) 