AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 32-906 AUGUST 2007Civil EngineeringREAL PROPERTY ASSET MANAGEMENTCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR: SAF/IEI  Supersedes AFPD 32-90, 10 September 1993 Certified by: SAF/IE  (Mr. William C. Anderson)Pages: 6This Air Force policy directive provides guidance relating to Air Force Real Property Asset Managementand applies to all Air Force organizations, including the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard(ANG). It implements Department of Defense Directives DODD 4165.6, Real Property, and DODD4165.65, Shelter for the Homeless Program, and Department of Defense Instructions DODI 4165.70,Real Property Management, DODI 4176.71, Real Property Acquisition, DODI 5030.53, Reimbursementof GSA Space, Services and Facilities, and DODI 4165.14, Real Property Inventory and Forecasting.Refer recommended changes and questions regarding this publication to the Office of Primary Responsi-bility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847sfrom the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. All records created as a result ofprocesses prescribed in this publication must be maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Man-agement of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes includeincorporating the concept of Federal Real Property Asset Management, updating office symbols, andexpanding roles and responsibilities. 1.  The Air Force plans, acquires, manages, and divests real property to ensure the overall sustainabilityand support of its missions, as well as the larger defense requirements of the Department of Defense(DOD), in the Air Force’s role as executive agent for property owned by the United States of America.Real property encompasses lands, buildings, structures, utility, systems, improvements, and appurte-nances thereto. The Air Force will accurately manage its real property asset inventory while efficientlyand effectively sustaining it in accordance with Federal Real Property Council guidance, the Air Forcewill also ensure it manages its real property asset inventory as needed to sustain current and enable pro-jected mission capabilities. 2AFPD32-90   6 AUGUST 20072.  The Air Force will plan to maximize use of existing real property assets prior to acquiring new realproperty. The Air Force will use its comprehensive planning, environmental, and mission bed down pro-cesses to assess the current use and expected strategic requirements of the installation. 3.  The Air Force may acquire real property in the United States, territorial areas administered by theUnited States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to meet its mission requirements. In foreign coun-tries, the Air Force must have prior approval of the foreign government or a clearance for particular mis-sions in order to acquire real property. Real property acquisitions include fee title, or lesser interests suchas easement, and leases. The choice of options is dependent upon mission needs and the installation’soperating environment. Real property acquisition should be made in the most economical way to meetmission requirements. The Air Force will only acquire the minimal interest and size of real property thatis necessary to ensure and conduct the mission operations for the expected life of the mission. 4.  Before acquiring new property, the Air Force will consider: using available real property from anothermilitary service or federal agency; exchanging excess federal property for privately owned land, facilities,or other real property; using state or local land through donation or a lease agreement. 5.  The intent of Air Force real property asset management is to sustain real property assets at the rightsize, cost and condition to accomplish Air Force missions and objectives. The Air Force will ensure thatbusiness processes promote effective management of real property assets. The Air Force will maintain anaccurate inventory of its real property in accordance with Federal Real Property Council, DOD, and AirForce instructions. Real property used by the Air Force will be reported on the annual Air Force FinancialStatement. The Air Force will record fiscal, physical, legal, environmental, and geospatial information onreal property assets to which the Air Force has a legal interest. Data from real property inventories andaccountability will serve as the basis for current sustainment and future capital investments. 6.  To promote efficiency, the Air Force encourages multiple uses when consistent with mission needs.Any multiple uses should comply with established programs such as national defense requirements, envi-ronmental conservation and protection, public safety, Air Installation Compatible Use Zones (AICUZ),and explosive safety clear zones. Partnering with sister services, other government agencies, and publicand private corporations is encouraged where possible to maximize mission capability. The Air Force willissue outgrants (such as leases, licenses, permits, and easements to DOD and non-DOD agencies) whenthe proposed use is compatible with multiple use and environmental criteria. In issuing these outgrants,which allow these agencies use of AF real property assets, the Air Force will manage its real propertyassets in accordance with market based principles inherent within Executive Order 13327 "Federal RealProperty Asset Management" and other applicable federal statutes and DOD directives. 7.  To maximize efficiency of its operations, the Air Force will continually assess its real property assetportfolio against on-going and projected mission needs. The Air Force will use a systematic approach todetermine if retaining property assets provide the best value to the Air Force. Otherwise, the Air Forceshall leverage market-based principles in the disposition of its excess real property assets, in orderto reduce overall installation sustainment and custody costs, while following federal statutes and DODregulations. 8.  The Air Force will comply with applicable environmental laws and DOD directives, conduct environ-mental restoration as needed at installations under its jurisdiction, and respect heritage assets. The AirAFPD32-90   6 AUGUST 20073Force will use the Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS) and the Environmental Impact Analysis processin its role in managing its real property assets. 9.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities: 9.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Logistics (SAF/IE)has overall responsibility and oversight of Air Force-controlled real property. 9.2.  The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations (SAF/IEI) provides Air Forcereal property policy, approval, and oversight guidance as delegated by SAF/IE. SAF/IEI ensures thatreal property asset management principles are applied in supporting the assigned missions of the AirForce.  SAF/IEI issues guidance and approvals for transactions involving market based value deter-minations and the best needs of the federal government. 9.3.  The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (SAF/IEE)provides environmental policy relating to real property planning, acquisition, management, and dives-titure. 9.4.  The Air Force Real Property Agency (AFRPA) establishes, manages, oversees, and executes pro-cesses and ensures implementation of Air Force policy for acquiring and disposing of Air Force-con-trolled real property.  Under authority delegated by SAF/IEI, AFRPA executes acquisitions anddispositions that are not executed through projects for facility construction or demolition. 9.5.  The Air Force Civil Engineer develops and implements Air Force policies for the operationalmanagement and accountability of Air Force-controlled real property.  The Civil Engineer will plan,program, and execute real property requirements, which includes projects for new facility construc-tion and demolition of existing facilities, necessary for the performance of the Air Force mission.  10.  Specific Air Force responsibilities, procedures, and guidelines are published in Air Force Instruction(AFI) 32-9000 series publications, which are the implementing publications to this policy directive.Address requests for waivers to the respective Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of the AFI in ques-tion. 11.  Attachment. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information used in thisdirective. MICHAEL W. WYNNESecretary of the Air Force 4AFPD32-90   6 AUGUST 2007Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Sections 2601, 2662-2696, 2812-2813, 9771-9782,18231-18240 Title 40, United States Code, Public Buildings, Property and Works, Sections 521-527 Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) Executive Order 13327, Federal Real Property Asset Management, 5 February 2004 Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) Statement of Federal Financial AccountingStandards (SFFAs) #5, Accounting for Property, Plans and Equipment (PP&E): SFFA#16; amendmentsto Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment DOD Directive 2000.12, DOD Antiterrorism Program, 18 August 2003 DOD Directive 4165.6, Real Property, 13 October 2004 DOD Directive 4165.14, Real Property Inventorying and Reporting, 31 March 2006 DOD Instruction 2000.16, DOD Antiterrorism Standards, 2 October 2006 DOD Instruction 4165.65, Shelter for the Homeless Program, 30 October 1987 DOD Instruction 4165.70, Real Property Management, 6 April 2005 DOD Instruction 4165.71, Real Property Acquisition, 6 January 2005 DOD Instruction 4715.3, Environmental Conservation Program, 3 May 1996 DOD Instruction 5030.53, Reimbursement for GSA Space, Services and Facilities, 14 September 1988 AFPD 10-5, Basing, 26 November 1993 AFPD 32-10, Air Force Installations and Facilities, 27 March 1995 AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994 AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 1 September 2005 AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries, 29 April 1994 AFI 32-7066, Environmental Baseline Surveys in Real Estate Transactions, 25 April 1994 AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property, 27 July 1994 AFI 32-9002, Use of Real Property Facilities, 22 November 1993 AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Real Property, 19 August 1997 AFI 32-9004, Disposal of Real Property, 21 July 1994 AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 19 September 1994 AFI 32-9006, Army and Air Force Basic Real Estate Agreements (Joint Departmental Publication), 22February 1995 AFPD32-90   6 AUGUST 20075AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 1 September 1996 AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property, 1 May 1999 AFH 32-9010, Management and Reporting of Air Force Space and Building Services in OSD AssignedFacilities, 13 March 2002 AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994 Abbreviations and Acronyms AICUZ—Air Installation Compatibility Use Zone AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Schedule AFRPA—Air Force Real Property Agency BRAC—Base Closure and Realignment Commission RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF—Secretary of the Air Force Terms Acquisition—Obtain an interest in real property DOD asset—Any item of economic value owned by a DOD component or held in a fiduciary capacity bya DOD component. It may be physical in nature or a DOD component may have a right to control the item(intangible). Easement—Right to use the land of another for specific purpose. Usually, owners of the land continue inpossession and can use it so long as such use does not interfere with the purpose for which easement wasgranted. An easement may be acquired for a specific term or in perpetuity. An easement differs from alicense in that: • The privilege granted usually cannot be withdrawn during its term. • It is considered to be a "permanent" interest in the property if the term exceeds 1 year. Executive Agent—One charged with responsibility Federal Real Property Council—Council established by Executive Order 13323, Federal Real PropertyAsset Management. Fee Ownership—Title to real property belonging to a person or the Government for which full andunconditional ownership exists. Such ownership does not necessarily include mineral rights. Interest—Something in which a right, claim, or share is held Land—Vacant, unimproved ground. Lease—Conveyance of exclusive possessor interest in real property for a specified term in return forpayment of rent or other consideration to the owner. License—Privilege to use or pass over a licenser's real property for a specific purpose (such asright-of-entry for survey and exploration, construction, or tree topping). Licenses granted to other Federalagencies are called "permits." 6AFPD32-90   6 AUGUST 2007Outgrants—Documents such as leases, licenses, easements, and joint-use agreements that transferinterest in or control of a real property from the Air Force to another Government agency, a non-Federalentity, or a private party. Permit—This term has two definitions; do not confuse the two uses of the term: • A nonpossessory right of exclusive or non-exclusive use of real property. When granted to a non-Federalparty, it generally covers a one-time use and is called a "license." • An authorization to use property under the jurisdiction of one Government agency by another for a def-inite period. Real Property—Includes lands, buildings, structures, utilities systems, improvements, andappurtenances thereto. It includes equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures (suchas heating systems) but not movable equipment (such as plant equipment). Real Property Accountability (RPA) Business Enterprise Priority (BEP)—Priority  placed  onproviding access to near-real time secure, accurate and reliable physical, legal, financial andenvironmental information on real property assets to which the Department of Defense has a legal interestto the warfighter and Business Mission Area. Real Property Asset Management—Air Force real property asset management is the process ofaccurately accounting for, maintaining and managing real property in the most efficient and economicalmanner in accordance with Federal Real Property Council guidance, while ensuring that the Air Force hasthe real property it needs for sustaining current and projected missions. Real Property Project—For the purpose of this policy directive, a real property project is one that doesnot involve a land component to the transaction. 