BY ORDER OF THETemplate modified:27 May 1997 14:30 members are exempt from jury duty when it unreasonably interferes with military duties or decreasesreadiness  in a unit, command, or activity.9. The Air Force will have experts in all aspects of health law.  It will train medical law consultants andmaintain high standards of knowledge and experience in medicolegal and Quality Assurance issues.  Thisexpertise will support the Air Force Surgeon General and the Air Force’s legal interests.10. Consistent with law and mission requirements, the Air Force will protect its interests in patents,trademarks, copyrights, and related matters.11. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:11.1. With the SAF/GC, the TJAG initiates, supervises, and coordinates all actions necessary to pro-tect the  Air  Force’s  interests  in litigation.  The TJAG carries out these actions through the Air ForceLegal Services Agency (AFLSA) and the International and Operations Law Division (HQ USAF/JAI).  This responsibility includes all legal disputes and other legal matters that involve Air Forceactivities in the United States and in foreign countries.11.2. Staff judge advocates, or the litigation division responsible for the subject matter, determinewhether official information may be released in litigation.11.3. Commands subordinate to HQ US Air Force do not start or take any action on civil   litigationunless TJAG or one of the litigation divisions identified below authorizes their involvement.11.3.1. The General Litigation Division (AFLSA/JACL) handles litigation in domestic courtsinvolving military and civilian personnel, taxes, and utility rates, as well as the Privacy and Free-dom of Information Acts.  They litigate constitutional and personal torts that do not arise under theFederal Tort Claims Act or admiralty.  They also cover administrative cases involving unfair laborpractices, administrative class actions under the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Act and,when possible, individual EEO and other labor cases.11.3.2. The Tort Claims and Litigation Division (AFLSA/JACT) deals with litigation underthe Federal Tort Claims Act, and with admiralty cases.  They also manage the  Air Force MedicalLaw Program.11.3.3. The Contract Litigation Division (AFLSA/JACN) handles actions filed in court and relat-ing to contracts, including contractor bankruptcies.  The Air Force Materiel Command Law Cen-ter Directorate of Contract Appeals (AFMCLC/JAB) litigates cases before the Armed ServicesBoard of Contract Appeals (ASBCA).  However, SAF/GC handles some significant court andASBCA cases and litigates matters before the General Services Board of Contract Appeals and theGeneral Accounting Office.11.3.4. The Environmental Litigation Division (AFLSA/JACE) covers litigation concerning theenvironment and land use.11.3.5. The Patents Division (AFLSA/JACP) handles litigation on patents, copyrights, trade-marks, and related matters.11.3.6. HQ USAF/JAI handles foreign civil cases involving the Air Force, its instrumentalities,and its officials.211.4. SAF/GC, except for litigation, protects the Air Force’s interests in patents, trademarks, copy-rights, and related matters.  They also manage the Air Force patent licensing program.11.5. The Chief, or Associate Chief, General Litigation Division (AFLSA/JACL) accepts service ofprocess for the Department of the Air Force.  Further, the Chief of AFLSA/JACL may accept a sub-poena issued to the Secretary of the Air Force.12. This policy interfaces with various legal publications.  Related policies are in      AFPD 51-5, MilitaryLegal Affairs.  Related instructions are in AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation (formerly AFRs 110-5, 110-10, and110-24);  AFI 51-302, Medical Law Program (formerly AFR 110-30); AFI 51-303, Air Force PatentsProgram (formerly AFRs 110-8 and 110-33); and AFI 51-501, Tort Claims (formerly AFR 112-1).13. See ATTACHMENT 1  for measures of compliance to this policy.DAVID C. MOREHOUSE,  Maj General, USAFThe Judge Advocate General3Attachment 1MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICYA1.1. Compliance will be measured by tracking the percentage of cases in litigation won by the Air ForceFigure A1.1.  If a case is settled short of trial, such a   case is won when a settlement is entered on termsfavorable to the Air Force.  Each litigating division within HQ US Air Force and AFLSA will record thenumber  of cases won and lost on a quarterly basis.  Cases will be reported to the Director of Civil Lawand Litigation (AFLSA/JAC) for the quarter in which they are closed.Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Civil Litigation 1991 Quarterly Win/Loss Ratio.4