BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 24-2  27 APRIL 2011 Transportation  PREPARATION AND MOVEMENT OF AIR FORCE MATERIEL   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY  ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A4LM  Supersedes:   AFPD 24-2, 3 Sep 2003 Certified by: AF/A4/7 (Lt Gen Reno) Pages: 6  This directive establishes policy for the packaging and movement of Air Force materiel within the Defense Transportation System (DTS) to meet operational needs, including mobility and surge.  This publication may not be supplemented by any organization.  It implements DoD Directive 4500.9E, Transportation and Traffic Management, and DoD Instruction 4500.57, Transportation and Traffic Management.  This directive applies to all Active Duty, Reserve, Guard, and Civil Air Patrol personnel shipping cargo on behalf of the United States Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  revision  contains  changes  and  clarification  in  policy  and  organizational  responsibilities.  Terms and references have been updated. The document has been revised throughout.         2  AFPD24-2  27 APRIL 2011 1.  Policy:  It is Air Force policy to: 1.1.  Package, pack and move materiel effectively and efficiently. 1.2.  Use transportation resources for official purposes only. 1.3.  Unless urgent circumstances (e.g., insufficient ground time) prohibit, manifest cargo on-board all DoD-owned, -controlled, or -chartered conveyances. 1.4.  Move  materiel  in  accordance  with  transportation  priority  and  established  time  definite delivery standards. 1.5.  Use  USTRANSCOM  negotiated  or  approved  lift  for  moving  shipments,  except  as authorized in the Defense Transportation Regulation (DTR). 1.6.  Use  commercial  resources  of  the  DTS  to  the  maximum  extent  practicable.    The exception is DoD organic aircraft flying established channel missions, which should be used consistent with operational requirements. 1.7.  Process  materiel  using  standard  automated  information  systems  (AISs)  and  Automatic Identification  Technology  (AIT)  to  streamline  freight  functions  and  provide  in-transit visibility (ITV) information. 1.8.  Utilize  Transportation  Officers  (T.O.s)  at  the  installation  level  to  assure  all  material entering  the  DTS  is  packaged,  packed,  documented  and  shipped  in  compliance  with appropriate international, Federal and State requirements. 1.9.  Comply with DTR (DTR 4500.9-R), Part II, Cargo Movement, Part III, Mobility, Part V, DoD  Customs  and  Border  Clearance  Policies  and  Procedures,  and  Part  VI,  Management and  Control  of  Intermodal  Containers  and  System  463-L  Equipment.    The  DTR  applies worldwide,  unless  otherwise  stated.  Overseas  MAJCOMs  will  implement  theater  directives in conjunction with the DTR and this policy directive. 2.  Responsibilities and authorities: 2.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (AF/A4/7): 2.1.1.  Establishes Air Force materiel movement, packaging, packing and ITV guidance, and provides oversight and assistance. 2.1.2.  Collaborates  with  USTRANSCOM  and  other  national  partners  to  identify, analyze, and improve distribution related processes. 2.2.  MAJCOM/ARC/FOA/DRUs: 2.2.1.  Assure  installation  commanders  designate  a  T.O.  as  the  single  cargo  movement manager for the installation.  The T.O. must have the authority to complete freight traffic duties,  including  supervision  of  the  freight  function  and  funds  obligation.    Where  Air Force  Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  units  are  located  on  an  Air  Force  installation, traffic management responsibilities will be consolidated to the maximum extent possible. Where consolidation is not complete, separate T.O.s may be assigned. 2.2.2.  Direct  subordinate  activities  in  packaging  and  traffic  management,  develop instructions  based  on  policy  directives,  AFIs,  public  law,  international  agreements,  and AFPD24-2  27 APRIL 2011   3  mission  requirements  and  provide  guidance  as  necessary  in  establishing  programs  for reuse and reclamation of shipping containers and packaging. 2.2.3.  Assure  subordinate  activities  are  trained  to  safely  load,  unload,  handle,  store, package,  and  transport  classified,  sensitive,  arms,  ammunition  and  explosives  (AA&E), Nuclear Weapons Related Material (NWRM) and hazardous material. 3.  Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication  MICHAEL B. DONLEY Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD24-2  27 APRIL 2011 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION  Attachment 1 References  Title 49, Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), Transportation, current edition  DoD 4000.25-1-M, Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedures (MILSTRIP), 28 April 2004  DoD 4000.25-6-M, Department of Defense Activity Address Directory, dates vary  DoD Directive 4140.1, Supply Chain Management Policy, 22 April 2004 DoD Directive 4500.9E, Transportation and Traffic Management, 11September 2007   DoD Directive 5158.04, United States Transportation Command, 11 September 2007 DoD 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, 6 June 1979  DoD Instruction 4500.57, Transportation and Traffic Management, 18 March 2008 DTR 4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement, June 2008  DTR 4500.9-R, Part III, Mobility, September 2007 DTR 4500.9-R, Part V, DoD Customs and Border Clearance Policies and Procedures, 5 May 2009 DTR 4500.9-R, Part VI, Management and Control of Intermodal Containers and System 463-L Equipment, September 2007 MIL-STD 129P, Military Marking for Shipment and Storage, 19 September 2007 Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC), Directory of Permit Officials for Highway Movements  SDDC, Strategic Highway Corridor Network  SDDC, Civil Rail Lines Important to National Defense  Abbreviations and Acronyms AFPD——Air Force Policy Directive AIS——Automated Information System  ARC——Air Reserve Component CMA——Centrally Managed Account DRU——Direct Reporting Unit  DTR——Defense Transportation Regulation DTS——Defense Transportation System FACTS——Financial and Air Clearance Transportation System   FOA——Field Operating Agency  AFPD24-2  27 APRIL 2011   5  ITV——In-Transit Visibility  JDP——Joint Departmental Publication  MRM——Management Reform Memorandum  RDS——Records Disposition Schedule SDDC——Surface Deployment and Distribution Command  SDT——Second Destination Transportation TO——Transportation Officer  USTRANSCOM——United States Transportation Command Terms  Defense Transportation System—That portion of the Nation’s transportation infrastructure that supports  DOD  common-user  transportation  needs  across  the  range  of  military  operations.  It consists of those common-user military and commercial assets, services and systems organic to, contracted for, or controlled by the Department of Defense. Hazardous  Materials—Substances  or  materials  which  the  Secretary  of  Transportation  has determined  to  be  capable  of  posing  unreasonable  risk  to  health,  safety,  and  property  when transported. Marking—The application of numbers, letters, labels, tags, symbols, or color codes to facilitate identification and handling during shipment and storage. Joint standard MILSTD-129 applies for all military packaging activities. Packaging—Consists  of  the  materials  and  methods  prescribed  in  Federal,  International,  or military specifications, standards, drawings, or other authorized documents designed to provide a specific level of protection for materiel in transportation or storage. Packaging incorporates the processes  and  procedures  used  to  protect  materiel  from  deterioration  and  damage.    It    includes cleaning,  drying,  preserving,  packing,  marking, labeling,  placarding,  unitizing,  and containerization. Packing—The  assembling  of  items  into  a  unit,  intermediate,  or  pack  with  necessary  blocking, bracing, cushioning, and containers. Transportation  Priority—Indicators  assigned  to  eligible  traffic  that  establish  its  movement precedence.  Appropriate  priority  systems  apply  to  the  movement  of  traffic  by  sea  and  air.  In times  of  emergency,  priorities  may  be  applicable  to  continental  United  States  movements  by land, water, or air. Transportation  Officer—The  person  designated  by  the  installation  commander  as  the  single materiel movement manager for the facility with authority to complete assigned duties including funds  obligation.  Since  duties  include  funds  obligation  and  classified  shipments,  the  person designated as TO cannot be a contractor or a foreign national.  T.O.s must be familiar with rules promulgated  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation,  the  International  Civil  Aviation Organization, the International Air Transport Association, the International Maritime Dangerous Goods  Code,  the  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration,  the  American  National Standards  Institute,  the  International  Standards  Organization,  the  Environmental  Protection   6  AFPD24-2  27 APRIL 2011 Agency,  the  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission,  the  United  Nations,  the  US  Postal  Service, import/export customs agencies (domestic and foreign), and foreign governments.  