BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 38-2 31 AUGUST 2017 Manpower and Organization MANPOWER  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A1M  Supersedes:  AFPD 38-2, 13 March 2013  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 6    This  Directive  implements  Air  Force  Manpower  policies  in  accordance  with  statutory  Title  10 and  Title  32,  United  States  Code  requirements,  as  well  as  Department  of  Defense  Directive (DoDD) 1100.4, Guidance for  Manpower Management, DoDI 1100.22,  Policy and  Procedures for  Determining  Workforce  Mix,  and  DoDI  5100.73,  Major  DoD  Headquarters  Activities.  In collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve  (AF/RE)  and  the  Director  of  the  Air National  Guard  (NGB/CF),  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services (AF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  AFPD  38-2,  Manpower.  This  publication  may  not  be supplemented.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication.  Air  Force  Forms  847  originating  from  the  field  must  be  routed  through  the respective Major Command (MAJCOM) Manpower, Personnel and Services Directorate. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the  Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision contains policy from Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management, DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix  and  DoDI  5100.73,  Major  DoD  Headquarters  Activities  and  updates  to  38-series publications. Previous Sample Metrics Comparisons have been deleted from this Directive. 2 1.  Overview. AFPD38-2  31 AUGUST 2017 1.1.  Manpower is a critical resource that enables combat capability. Manpower requirements are  identified  and  resources  are  subsequently  allocated  to  man  Air  Force  peacetime  and wartime  missions  in  the  form  of  funded  authorizations  on  Unit  Manpower  Documents (UMDs).  The system of record for housing these manpower requirements/authorizations is the Manpower Programming and Execution System (MPES). 1.2.  Programmed Manpower is a large part of the annual Air Force budget approved by the Congress.  The Congress controls manpower levels  by authorizing and  funding military end strengths,  funding  the  civilian  work  force,  establishing  military  grade  distributions  and directing human capital resources and programs through legislation each year. 1.3.  To  support  national  security  objectives,  Air  Force  units  must  successfully  accomplish assigned  missions  using  optimal  levels  of  manpower  resources  directly  tied  to  approved program content. To effectively and efficiently execute Air Force missions, manpower must be allocated in the most effective work force mix of Regular Air Force, Reserve forces, civil service  and  contract  manpower  equivalents  based  upon  analytically  derived  manpower requirements consistent with approved program content. To that end, the Air Force provides unit  commanders,  through  the  MAJCOMs,  with manpower  in  quantity,  grade  and  specialty required to accomplish assigned missions. 1.4.  The Air Force relies on a formal, analytically based process to determine expeditionary manpower  requirements  and  execute  mobilization  planning.  Planning  requirements  are documented in the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  The  Air  Force  will  allocate  available  manpower  consistent  with  mission  requirements, available resources and acceptable levels of risk. 2.2.  Air  Force  will  manage  UMDs  in  accordance  with  congressionally  authorized  end strength,  to  include  the  centrally  managed  accounts  and  will  simultaneously  comply  with guidance  contained  in  the  Defense  Officer  Personnel  Management  Act  (DOPMA)  and  the Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act (ROPMA), Titles 10 and 32, United States Code and Congressionally mandated ceilings or floors. 2.3.  The Air Force will establish policies and procedures to consistently define analytically based manpower requirements, develop defensible budgets and allocate manpower resources across the three components:  Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserves and Air National Guard (RegAF,  AFR  and  ANG)  in  a  manner  that  facilitates  efficient  resource  utilization  and maximum combat capability. 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) provides  oversight  of  AF  Manpower  policies  and  execution  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary  and issues  guidance  and  direction  on  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  formulation,  review  and execution of plans, policies, requirements, programs and budgets concerning Manpower. 3.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  is responsible  for  executing  the  AF  Manpower  program  and  developing,  coordinating  and AFPD38-2  31 AUGUST 2017 3 executing  manpower  policies,  programs  and  procedures  through  the  MAJCOMs,  Field Operating Agencies and Direct Reporting Units.  HEATHER WILSON Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD38-2  31 AUGUST 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management, 12 February 2005 DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix, 12 April 2010 DoDI 5100.73, Major DoD Headquarters Activities, Incorporates IC 2, 12 December 2012 Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Title 10 United States Code, Armed Forces Title 32 United States Code, National Guard Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms AFR—Air Force Reserve AF/RE—Chief of Air Force Reserve ANG—Air National Guard CFTE—Contractor Full-time Equivalent DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DOPMA—Defense Officer Personnel Management Act DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency FYDP—Future Years Defense Program MAJCOM—Major Command MPES—Manpower Programming and Execution System NGB/CF—Director of Air National Guard ROPMA—Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act UMD—Unit Manpower Document Terms End  Strength—The  count  of  Air  Force  military  and  civilian  positions  the  Air  Force  needs  to have  funded  in  each  year  of  the  Future  Years  Defense  Program  (FYDP)  to  accomplish  all approved  missions.  End  strength  provides  the  basis  for  funded  man-years  within  the  personnel system,  and  provides  the  target  for  personnel  plans,  programs,  and  budgets.  End  strength  is  a AFPD38-2  31 AUGUST 2017 5 resource  provided  to  support  approved  force  structure,  programs,  or  missions.  End  strength changes do not drive force structure or mission changes; they are tied to programmatic increases and  decreases  in  force  structure  or  mission.  FYDP  end  strength  is  allocated  to  commands  by program element code, category and country-state. Manpower—A critical resource comprised of Regular Air Force, Reserve forces, civil service, and contractor full-time equivalents (CFTEs) necessary to support an approved program. It is not a program by itself and not to be manipulated independent of the program it supports. Manpower  Authorization—A  funded  manpower  requirement  with  detail  that  defines  the position  in  terms  of  its  function,  organization,  location,  skill,  grade,  and  other  appropriate characteristics or attributes that commands use to extend manpower end strength to units. Manpower  Requirement—A  statement  of  the  manpower  required  to  accomplish  a  specified job, workload, mission, or program. There are two types of manpower requirements: funded and unfunded.  Funded  manpower  requirements  are  validated  and  allocated  manpower  needs. Unfunded  requirements  are  validated  manpower  needs  but  are  deferred  because  of  budgetary constraints. Department  of  the  Air  Force  Headquarters  Activity  Manpower—All  military  and  civilian personnel  authorized  or  assigned  to  organizations  designated  as  major  Department  of  the  Air Force Headquarters (Management or Combatant) or who provide support to one or more major Department of the Air Force Headquarters Activities. Management Headquarters—A headquarters whose primary responsibility is to oversee, direct and  control  subordinate  organizations  or  units  through  developing  and  issuing  policies  and providing  policy  guidance;  reviewing  and  evaluating  program  performance;  allocating  and distributing resources; or conducting mid- and long-range planning, programming and budgeting. Combatant  Headquarters—A  headquarters  designated  as  an  Air  Force  Component Headquarters  to  a  US  Combatant  Command  (COCOM)  whose  primary  responsibility  is  to oversee, direct and control the planning for, and the employment of, global or theater-level U.S. military forces. Direct  Support—Professional,  technical,  administrative  or  logistical  support  that  is  performed in, or provided directly to, a Department of Air Force Headquarters Activity and is essential to its operation. Manpower  Ceilings  or  Floors—Maximum  or  minimum  levels  levied  on  the  Services  by Congress to limit end strength within US DoD activities to include overseas areas, regions, and countries or at the Major Departmental level. Manpower  Programming  and  Execution  System  (MPES)—A  web-based  application designed  to  collect  and  disseminate  Total  Force  execution  of  programmed  manpower  end strength.    The  MPES  application  includes  the  Future  Years  Defense  Program  (FYDP)  module which is used to program and manage the Air Force manpower future years budget.  The FYDP module  is  the  official  system  of  record  of  all  AF  manpower  budget  actions.    Following  the Program  Objective  Memorandum  (POM)  and  the  President's  Budget  (PB),  MPES  allocates manpower  FYDP  (manpower  end  strength)  to  the  Major  Commands  (MAJCOMs),  Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) and Field Operating Agencies (FOAs) to  execute POM/PB actions on the  Unit  Manpower  Document  (UMD).    MPES  provides  MAJCOMs,  DRUs,  and  FOAs  the 6 AFPD38-2  31 AUGUST 2017 capability to organize Air Force end strength into units (down to position level detail for Regular Air  Force,  Civilians,  Guard  and  Reserve  forces)  required  to  execute  Air  Force  programs  and accomplish  unit  missions.    The  MPES  application  also  includes  Business  Objects  which  is  a reporting module that supplements MPES UMD and FYDP to create custom reports.  