BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-3723 MARCH 2006PERSONNELSPACE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENTNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ AFSPC/A1FX (Col Edward A. Fienga) Certified by: HQ USAF/A3SP(Col Wayne P. Hudson)Pages: 5Distribution: F1.  This policy directive implements DoDD 5101.2, “DoD Executive Agent for Space,” 3 Jun 03, para-graph 6.3.5: “(Heads of the DoD Components shall) develop and maintain a sufficient cadre ofspace-qualified personnel to support their Component in space planning, programming, acquisition, andoperations. Support the DoD Executive Agent for Space with space cadre personnel to represent theirComponent in DoD-wide planning, programming and acquisition activities.” The purpose of this Direc-tive is to delineate key leadership responsibilities and authorities for managing the Air Force Space Pro-fessional Development Program (SPDP). The SPDP is derived from the USAF Space ProfessionalStrategy (16 Apr 2003), developed in response to a report by the Congressionally-appointed “Commis-sion to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization” (Jan 2001), and asubsequent SECDEF implementation memorandum (18 Oct 2001) on “National Security Space Manage-ment and Organization.” This AFPD does not supersede any existing AFPD. It applies to the Total ForceCredentialed Space Professional Community (CSPC), which includes officers, civilians, enlisted, Guardand Reserve who design, acquire, employ, operate, and integrate our nation’s military space capabilities.Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ AFSPC/A1FX, 150Vandenberg Street, Suite 150, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4450, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommen-dation for Change to Publication. 2.  SPDP is designed to expand knowledge, increase understanding and raise the overall qualifications ofAir Force Credentialed Space Professionals (CSP) to serve as equal partners with other warfighting com-ponents in the joint warfare environment. This directive establishes policies to ensure appropriate spaceeducation, training and experience programs are available to all eligible Air Force and DoD personnel. 3.  The Air Force provides general professional development to Space Professionals along with special-ized training and education to fill requirements established by the Space Professional Functional Author-ity (AFSPC/CC), as well as applicable Force Development teams and career field functional managers(AFPD 36-23). A comprehensive SPDP will produce highly qualified experts to build, operate and inte-2AFPD36-37   23 MARCH 2006grate military space capabilities; master complex technology; and develop new doctrine and concepts ofoperations to achieve national security space objectives. 4.  The cornerstone of SPDP is a space education continuum—Space 100, 200 and 300—that reinforcesUSAF space cultural awareness throughout a CSP’s career. These courses are intended to advance thespace knowledge of all officer, enlisted and civilian CSPs. The Air Force will endeavor to eliminateredundancies and overlaps with other DoD and government agencies and will pursue multi-Service train-ing and education programs to the maximum extent possible. 5.  Credentialed Space Professional members are expected to attain appropriate education, training andexperience commensurate with their rank, responsibilities and career progression, as mandated byapproved Space Professional certification standards. At a minimum, SPDP is designed to improve jointwarfighting knowledge and skills, and prepare individuals in space-related duties to assume progressivelyhigher levels of responsibility. 6.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities: 6.1.  The Under Secretary of the Air Force, as DoD Executive Agent for Space, facilitates the devel-opment and maintenance of a cadre of space professionals who possess the depth and breadth of train-ing, education, and experience required to advance the use of space power in future militaryoperations. 6.2.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) serves as the Functional Author-ity for the 61XX, 62XX, 63XX, and 64XX career fields and is responsible for Force Developmentprocedures and policies unique to these career fields in accordance with doctrine and HQ USAF/A1program direction. 6.3.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ USAF/A1) develops, coordinates, and executes per-sonnel policies and essential procedural guidance for managing the Space Professional Developmentprograms. 6.4.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and Space Operations (HQ USAF/A3/5) is the Functional Author-ity for the 13SXX and 1C6XX career fields and is responsible for Force Development procedures andpolicies unique to these career fields in accordance with doctrine and HQ USAF/A1 program direc-tion. 6.5.  The Commander, Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC) is responsible for the overall healthand development of the Air Force’s CSPC. The SECAF, in a 15 Jul 2003 memorandum, identified theAFSPC/CC as the Space Professional Functional Authority (SPFA), which fulfilled the Space Com-mission recommendation for the most senior AF space leader to manage all aspects of the “spacecareer field.” The SPFA is unique since this oversight extends across a number of space-related careerfields including officer, enlisted, civilian and ARC components. AFSPC/CC executes this responsibil-ity through the Space Professional Management Office (HQ AFSPC/A1FX) and other affiliated unitsas necessary. 6.6.  The Air Reserve Command and Air National Guard will coordinate with AFSPC to ensure theirSpace Professional Development programs are compatible with personnel utilization in their compo-nent while still fulfilling AFSPC requirements. AFPD36-37   23 MARCH 200636.7.  Air Education and Training Command will develop programs to satisfy initial qualifications ofCredentialed Space Professionals based on AFSPC requirements. 6.8.  Air University will provide procedures for executing Developmental Education to ensure ade-quate representation of space capabilities and graduate education focused on appropriate space disci-plines. 7.  See Attachment 1 for DoD and related guidance implemented by this directive, as well as publicationsand related guidance that interface with this directive. MICHAEL W. WYNNE Secretary of the Air Force 4AFPD36-37   23 MARCH 2006Attachment 1   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References IMPLEMENTED POLICY AND RELATED GUIDANCE DoD Directive 5101.2, DoD Executive Agent for Space, 6 March 2003 INTERFACING GUIDANCE AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 18 February 2004 AFPD 10-12, Space Operations, 1 February 1996 AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education and Development, 12 February 2004 AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 March 2004 AFPD 36-23, Military Education, 27 September 1993 AFI 36-601, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management, 25 July 1994 AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education, 27 June 2002 AFI  36-2302,  Professional  Development  (Advanced  Academic  Degrees  and  Professional  ContinuingEducation), 11 July 2001 AFI 36-2611, Officer Professional Development, 1 April 1996 AFI 36-2640, Volume I, Total Force Development (Active Duty Officer), 23 January 2004 SECDEF Memorandum, “National Security Space Management and Organization,” 18 October 2001 Space Human Capital Resources Strategy, February 2004 Space Human Capital Resources Strategy Implementation Plan, December 2004 Abbreviations and Acronyms SPDP—Space Professional Development Program SPFA—Space Professional Functional Authority CSP—Credentialed Space Professionals CSPC—Credentialed Space Professional Community Terms Space Professional Development Program (SPDP)—An Air Force-level personnel developmentprogram designed to build a group of space experts who thoroughly understand the medium ofspace--from concept to sustainment--including design, acquisition, fielding, operations, maintenance. TheSPDP is a multi-faceted plan to ensure deliberate, purposeful individual development highlighted byexpanded space education, training, and experience-building opportunities. The elements of this programare formalized through a three-level certification program to create and manage a knowledgeablecommunity of CSPs to meet the nation’s space needs and national security objectives. SPDP is the officialAFPD36-37   23 MARCH 20065Air Force response to the 2001 Space Commission’s recommendation to “develop the space cadre thenation needs.” Space Professional Functional Authority (SPFA)—The SECAF identified the Commander of AirForce Space Command (AFSPC/CC) as the Space Professional Functional Authority. In this role theCommander, in concert with other space-AFSCs Functional Authorities, is responsible for the overallhealth and development of the Air Force Credentialed Space Professional Community. The SPFAprovides strategic oversight of this group to include prioritization of functional requirements based onmission needs. Credentialed Space Professionals (CSPs)—Personnel identified in the Space Commission Report asoperators and acquirers specializing in the national security space arena. This group includes scientists,engineers, program managers and space operators who require specialized space education, experiencecoding and tracking to meet rigid certification requirements. Credentialed Space Professional Community (CSPC)—Formerly known as the Space Cadre. Thecollective group of CSPs consists of space-experienced scientists, engineers, program managers andoperators, which includes officer, civilian, and enlisted personnel. 