BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-55 AUGUST 2008Financial ManagementCOST AND ECONOMICSCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil  RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR: HQ AFCAA/FMCP  Supersedes AFPD65-5, 17 May 1993 Certified by: SAF/FM  (Mr. John Gibson)Pages: 7This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense Directive 5000.04, CostAnalysis Improvement Group, August 16, 2006, and Department of Defense Instruction 7041.3, EconomicAnalysis for Decision Making, November 7, 1995. This AFPD applies to all Air Force organizations thatoversee or manage Air Force funded acquisition or sustainment programs to include, but not limited to,aircraft, weapons, space, and information technology; it applies to both military and civilian Air Forcepersonnel. This publication shall be applied to contractors or other persons through the contract or otherlegally binding agreement with the Department of the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and ques-tions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Rec-ommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriatefunctional’s chain of command. Air Force offices implementing the AFPD will ensure that all records cre-ated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air ForceManual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air ForceRecords Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located athttps://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis document is substantially changed and must be reviewed in its entirety. The changes to this AFPD constitute a complete policy directive update. Included are requirements forconducting cost, economic, business case, and financial analyses with specific emphasis on acquisitionprogram cost estimates and Non-Advocate Cost Assessments (NACAs) for milestone reviews, annualprogramming and budgeting decisions, source selections, Analysis of Alternatives (AoA), and programand unit cost breaches (potential Nunn-McCurdy cost breaches). In addition, the AFPD defines key rolesand responsibilities for Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and Major Commands (MAJCOMs). 1.  The Air Force shall support the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES)and the acquisition system within the Department of Defense, by providing decision makers with credible2AFPD65-5   5 AUGUST 2008and objective cost, economic, and business case analyses. In addition, the Air Force shall provide finan-cial oversight of Air Force Services Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality (NAFI) activities and analy-sis of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES). 2.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management (SAF/FM) is responsible for AirForce cost, economic, and business case analysis and will work collaboratively with other headquartersorganizations (SAF/AQ, SAF/US, etc.) to ensure analyses provided to decision makers are realistic, reli-able, and complete. 3.  The following are the types of analyses that shall be conducted across the Air Force: 3.1.  Program cost estimates for Acquisition Category (ACAT) I programs and selected ACAT II/IIIprograms. 3.1.1.  ACAT I cost estimates shall be led by a properly qualified member of the Armed Forces orfull-time employee of the Department of Defense. 3.1.2.  Estimates shall be updated annually and used to support milestone decisions, PPBES for-mulation, source selections, program and unit cost breaches (potential Nunn-McCurdy costbreaches), and Analysis of Alternatives on programs expected to meet ACAT I thresholds. 3.2.  Non-Advocate Cost Assessments (NACAs) for ACAT I programs and selected ACAT II/III pro-grams. 3.2.1.  All NACAs shall be led by a properly qualified member of the Armed Forces or full-timeemployee of the Department of Defense. 3.2.2.  The Service Acquisition Executive (SAE), or delegate, and the Air Force Corporate Struc-ture (AFCS) shall consider the NACA in ACAT I program milestone and PPBES decisions. In asimilar fashion, the Program Executive Officer (PEO)/Center Commander shall use selectivelygenerated NACAs at programmatic decision points and in support of PPBES activities for ACATII/III programs. 3.2.3.  NACAs shall be updated annually and used to support milestone decisions, PPBES formu-lation, source selections, program and unit cost breaches (potential Nunn-McCurdy costbreaches), and Analysis of Alternatives on programs expected to meet ACAT I thresholds. 3.3.  Independent Cost Estimates (ICEs) / Component Cost Analyses (CCAs) for Major DefenseAcquisition Programs (MDAPs) and Major Automated Information Systems (MAISs) milestoneswhere decision authority has been delegated to the SAE. 3.3.1.  All ICEs/CCAs shall be led by a properly qualified member of the Armed Forces orfull-time employee of the Department of Defense. 3.3.2.  SAF/FM or the SAE may direct stand-alone ICEs/CCAs on a case-by-case basis. 3.4.  Economic analysis (EA), business case analysis (BCA), financial analysis, and special studies. 3.4.1.  Develop inflation indices based on OUSD (Comptroller) guidance. 3.4.2.  Develop discount rates based on OMB guidance. AFPD65-5   5 AUGUST 200833.4.3.  Develop, review, maintain, and apply cost and planning factors in support of Air Force pro-gram and budget decisions to include the cost per flying hour factors developed for the flying hourprogram. 3.4.4.  Obtain data for the United States and world economy, including foreign exchange rates. 3.4.5.  Maintain a program to determine and apply the effects of changes in the economy to thePPBES. 3.4.6.  Provide guidance for comptroller participation in the Air Force Commercial Activities Pro-gram; assist with the development of all cost data inputs for the OMB Circular A-76 Performanceof Commercial Activities agency cost estimate. 3.4.7.  Conduct a Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) oversight program of all active Air Force Ser-vices NAFIs and analysis of AAFES corporate operations. 3.4.8.  Assess the financial health of defense firms and the defense and aerospace industry. 4.  Responsibilities. 4.1.  The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics (SAF/FMC) shall: 4.1.1.  Develop and administer cost, economic, financial, and business case analysis policy andguidance; standards and templates; training, education, and professional certification programs;analyst qualification criteria; cost estimating performance and budget risk metrics; participate incost and technical data collection efforts; develop cost estimating methods and model develop-ment projects; maintain a historical cost database; and provide support to other HAF functionalorganizations. 4.1.2.  Prepare or delegate NACAs and review program cost estimates. 4.1.3.  Develop ICEs/CCAs. 4.1.4.  Approve waivers for program cost estimates and NACA requirements (unless required bystatute) with the concurrence of SAF/AQ, SAF/US (or their delegate PEO). 4.1.5.  Develop EAs, BCAs, and financial analyses when requested by HAF or consideredhigh-level interest items, or in support of installations and MAJCOMs via the FM Center ofExpertise (CoE). Responsibility for certification and approval remains with the supported unit. 4.1.6.  Review and comment on technical propriety and sufficiency of any cost, economic, finan-cial, or business case analysis (whether developed by the MAJCOM, acquiring organization orHAF organization) when the analysis will be presented to the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF),the Under Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF), the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), or theVice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (VCSAF), OSD, OMB, or Congress. 4.1.7.  Establish and maintain NAFI oversight; and provide AAFES analysis. 4.1.8.  Develop inflation indices, discount rates, cost per flying hour factors, OMB Circular A-76analysis, and other cost and economic support required in paragraph 3.4. 4.2.  The PEOs for space and non-space acquisition programs shall prepare and maintain program costestimates. 4.3.  Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies and direct reporting units will: 4AFPD65-5   5 AUGUST 20084.3.1.  Establish and maintain cost, economic and financial management expertise to support theresource allocation process; certify economic and business case analyses within their command;support training, education, professional development and certification programs; and developknowledge management tools. 4.3.2.  Develop AoA cost estimates, economic and business case analyses, and provide other costand economic support required in paragraph 3.4. 4.3.3.  Establish and maintain NAFI oversight expertise to accomplish independent financial over-sight of AF NAFI activities under their command. 4.3.4.  Prepare NACAs when delegated by SAF/FMC. 4.3.5.  Request financial analytical support as needed from the FM CoE. 5.  Information Collection, Records, and Forms. 5.1.  Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication. 5.2.  Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publicationare maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMSRDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. 5.3.  Forms (Adopted and Prescribed). 5.3.1.  Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. 5.3.2.  Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this publication. Michael B. DonleyActing Secretary of the Air Force AFPD65-5   5 AUGUST 20085Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Abbreviations and Acronyms AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service ACAT—Acquisition Category AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command ALC—Air Logistics Center ANG—Air National Guard AoA—Analysis of Alternatives AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure APB—Acquisition Program Baseline BCA—Business Case Analysis CoE—Center of Expertise CCA—Component Cost Analysis EA—Economic Analysis HAF—Headquarters Air Force ICE—Independent Cost Estimate MAIS—Major Automated Information System MAJCOM—Major Command MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program NACA—Non-Advocate Cost Assessment NAF—Non-appropriated Fund NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality NSSA—National Security Space Acquisition PCE—Program Cost Estimate PEO—Program Executive Officer POM—Program Objective Memorandum PPBES—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System SAE—Service Acquisition Executive USC—United States Code 6AFPD65-5   5 AUGUST 2008Terms Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)—A study conducted to explore numerous conceptual solutions with thegoal of identifying the most promising options. The AoA is used to justify the rationale for formalinitiation of the selected course of action. Business Case Analysis (BCA)—A decision support document that identifies alternatives and presentsbusiness, economic, and technical arguments for selecting an alternative to achieve organizational orfunctional missions or goals. Component Cost Analysis—An independent cost estimate or analysis conducted by the Air Force CostAnalysis Agency. Cost Estimate / Analysis—A documented analysis that predicts future costs, including profit, to developand field a desired system. This requires evaluation of costs and risks of the development, production,operation, support and disposal of a system. A key element of a comprehensive estimate is a cost risk/uncertainty analysis of relevant cost, schedule, and performance factors. Cost Risk / Uncertainty Analysis—The process of quantifying the uncertainties associated withelements of the cost model such as cost estimating relationships (CERs), technical parameters that driveCERs, labor and other rates, and the schedule. The probability (risk) that a specific cost target will beexceeded is derived from the total uncertainty of the estimate. Economic Analysis (EA)—A systematic approach to the allocation of scarce resources. It compares thepresent value of the monetary costs and benefits of the alternatives under consideration, and describes andanalyzes relevant non-monetary costs and benefits. Independent Cost Estimate (ICE)—A cost estimate / analysis prepared by an organization not directlyresponsible for the development, acquisition, or support of the program. The ICE must include a cost risk/uncertainty analysis and complete documentation. Major Automated Information System Program Change—MAIS programs that experience: a) aschedule delay of more than six months, but less than one year or b) development cost or full life-cyclecost growth of at least 15 percent, but less than 25 percent over the original estimate or c) a significant,adverse change in the expected performance from the parameters originally submitted to Congress, shallnotify congressional defense committees in writing within 45 days of the determination. Non-Advocate Cost Assessment (NACA)—An analysis of program cost / price, as well as schedule andtechnical risk, prepared by an organization not directly responsible for the development, acquisition, orsupport of the program. NACAs are designed to support the AFCS and acquisition milestone decisionprocess, and can range from a simple sufficiency review of an existing estimate to a complete ICE. TheNACA should include a cost risk/uncertainty analysis (when possible) and complete documentation. Program Deviation—A cost, schedule or technical deviation from the approved Acquisition ProgramBaseline (APB). Unit Cost Breach (potential Nunn-McCurdy Cost Breach)—Major Defense Acquisition Programsexperiencing: a.) significant cost growth of 15% or more in Program Acquisition Unit Cost (PAUC) orAverage Procurement Unit Cost (APUC) over the current baseline estimate or b.) 30% or more in PAUCor APUC over the original baseline estimate, are required to notify Congress of the cost growth andsubmit a Selected Acquisition Report (SAR) during the quarter the breach was determined. Programs withcritical unit cost increases of at least 25% in PAUC or APUC over the current baseline or 50% in PAUCAFPD65-5   5 AUGUST 20087or APUC over the original baseline estimate are required to notify Congress, submit a SAR, and submitSecDef certification (10 USC 2433). Program Cost Estimate (PCE)—The cost estimate produced by the acquiring organization (i.e., ProductCenter, ALC, or Laboratory). 