BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 23-1 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Materiel Management SUPPLY CHAIN MATERIEL MANAGEMENT     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/AQD  Supersedes:  AFPD23-1, 15 February 2011  Certified by: SAF/AQ  (Ms Darlene Costello) Pages: 10 This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  provides  direction  for  Air  Force  (AF)  supply  chain materiel  management  through  implementation  of  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI) 4140.01,  DoD  Supply  Chain  Materiel  Management  Policy  and  designates  Headquarters  Air Force  (HAF)  functional  responsibilities  for  Air  Force  supply  chain  materiel  management.  It facilitates the implementation of Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1225.06,  Equipping the Reserve Forces and the following DoDIs: 4140.58, National Guard and Reserve Equipment Report  (NGRER);  3110.05,  Readiness-Based  Materiel  Condition  Reporting  for  Mission-Essential  Systems  and  Equipment;  4140.61,  Customer  Wait  Time  and  Time  Definite  Delivery; 4140.63, Management of DoD Clothing and Textiles (Class II); 4161.02, Management, Control and Disposal of Government Property in the Possession of Contractors; 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD-Owned Equipment and Other Accountable Property; 5128.34, Defense Materiel  Readiness  Board  (DMRB)  to  provide  a  framework  for  materiel  management  and responsibilities.  It  complements  policy  provided  in  AFPD  63-1/20-1,  Integrated  Life  Cycle Management  for  product  support,  and  AFPD  24-2,  Preparation  and  Movement  of  Air  Force Materiel for the packaging and movement of AF materiel. This AFPD applies to all military and civilian AF personnel, including major commands (MAJCOMs), direct reporting units (DRUs), field operating agencies (FOAs), Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and other individuals or organizations  as  required  by  binding  agreement  or  obligation  with  the  Department  of  the  Air Force.  Any  change  or  waiver  must  be  approved  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SECAF). Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route form  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  Functional  Chain  of  Command.  Ensure  all  records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with 2 AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The following AFPDs correlate with  this Publication:  AFPD 10-2, Readiness;  AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve  Component  Forces;  AFPD  10-4,  Operations  Planning:  Air  and  Space  Expeditionary Force  (AEF);  AFPD  10-6,  Capability  Requirements  Development;  AFPD  13-5,  Air  Force Nuclear  Enterprise;  AFPD  21-2,  Munitions;  AFPD  25-1,  War  Reserve  Materiel;  AFPD  36-26, Total  Force  Development;  AFPD  38-1,  Organization  and  Unit  Designation;  AFPD  90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  publication  has  been  substantially  revised  and  needs  to  be  completely  reviewed.  This rewrite reflects the new Certifying Official responsibility for SAF/AQ, satisfies policy gaps that currently exist between DoD policy and AF guidance, and clarifies the roles and responsibilities within the HAF for supply chain materiel management. 1.  AF Supply Chain Materiel Management.  It is AF Policy to: 1.1.  Use  the  supply  chain  operational  reference  processes  of  plan,  source,  make  and maintain,  deliver,  and  return  as  a  framework  for  developing,  improving,  and  conducting materiel  management  activities  to  satisfy  customer  support  requirements  as  efficiently  as possible. 1.2.  Consider all life-cycle costs associated with materiel management, including acquiring, distributing, transporting, storing, maintaining, repairing, protecting, and disposing. 1.3.  Identify supply chain strategies from supply chain characteristics and apply the strategy consistently for a given type of item, commodity, class, customer, or supplier. 1.4.  Develop guidance that emphasizes supply chain responsiveness and prudent stewardship in  supply  chain  planning,  sourcing,  maintenance,  delivery,  retention  and  disposition  of materiel. 1.5.  Establish support strategies to meet customer materiel requirements for active duty AF, Air  Reserve  Component,  Cooperative  Logistics  Supply  Support  Arrangements,  DoD Components and participating Federal agencies (when acting in the capacity as the Primary Inventory Control Activity). 1.6.  Manage materiel resources from acquisition through disposition. 1.7.  Establish  wholesale  and  retail  stockage  objectives  for  peacetime  and  war  reserve materiel (WRM) readiness requirements. 1.8.  Establish  provisioning  and  replenishment  objectives  to  optimize  materiel  availability and stewardship of costs, and minimize materiel excess/surplus and negative environmental, safety, and occupational health impacts. 1.9.  Ensure  all  Controlled  Inventory  Items  to  include  nuclear  weapons  related  materiel (NWRM),  classified,  communications  security  (COMSEC),  weapons  and  other  sensitive AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 3 assets are accurately received, secured, stored, issued, demilitarized and disposed, accounted for and reported to AF and DoD agencies as required. 1.10.  Ensure  materiel  in  storage  is  maintained  in  a  ready  status  that  prevents  property deterioration and loss. 1.11.  Ensure materiel accumulation does not exceed authorized stock or retention limits. 1.12.  Minimize  the  volume  of  materiel  disposed  as  scrap  or  waste  through  cost-effective reclamation and reuse of materiel. 1.13.  Maintain  visibility  of  serviceable  items  transferred  to  Defense  Logistics  Agency Disposition Services; when practical reutilize items in lieu of initiating a new procurement. 1.14.  Maintain  positive  inventory  control  (PIC)  and  in-transit  visibility  (ITV)  of  assets throughout all nodes of the supply chain. 1.15.  Proactively  prevent  loss  and  ensure  appropriate  demilitarization  of  assets  prior  to disposal. 1.16.  Ensure cost-effective recovery  from surplus, scrap or residual  materiel  and maximize the reuse of critical, strategic, and precious metals. 1.17.  Comply  with  AFPD  90-8,  Environment,  Safety  &  Occupational  Health  Management and  Risk  Management  and  associated  statutes,  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  standards, environmental regulations, technical orders and safety data sheets. 2.  Roles and Responsibilities.  The following responsibilities and authorities are established: 2.1.  In conjunction with AFPD 63-1/20-1 direction, the Assistant Secretary for the Air Force (Acquisition) (SAF/AQ) shall: 2.1.1.  Ensure that AF policy guidance: 2.1.1.1.  Addresses end-to-end AF supply chain requirements and responsibilities. 2.1.1.2.  Complements  and  supports  life  cycle  support  solutions  to  balance  support goals, total supply chain costs and performance factors. 2.1.2.  Oversee AF supply chain sourcing and acquisition strategies that: 2.1.2.1.  Promote supply chain resiliency. 2.1.2.2.  Seek to minimize life cycle costs. 2.1.2.3.  Offer  best-value  selection  among  organic  and  commercial  support alternatives. 2.1.3.  Ensure  AF  supply  chain  information  technology  (IT)  acquisition  strategies  are integrated with AF enterprise IT strategies and are designed to facilitate DoD-wide asset visibility of materiel throughout the DoD supply chain. 2.1.4.  Ensure  an  AF  enterprise  impact  assessment  is  accomplished  for  programmatic source of supply (SOS) selection. 2.1.5.  Develop  supply chain  risk management  strategies that promote quality, hardware reliability,  availability,  enduring  support  and  guard  against  counterfeit  materiel  in  the DoD supply chain. 4 AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 2.1.6.  Establish  requirements  in  the  appropriate  AFIs  for  the  exchange  of  information between materiel and acquisition managers. 2.1.7.  Facilitate  exceptions  to  normal  disposition  policy  (e.g.  contingency  operations, base closures, etc.). 2.1.8.  Ensure  supply  chain  guidance  adheres  to  diminishing  manufacturing  sources  and materiel shortages objectives as identified in DoDM 4140.01, Vol. 3, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Procedures: Materiel Sourcing. 2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) shall: 2.2.1.  Provide  (Author  or  Publish)  implementing  materiel  management  guidance  that provides the direction and oversight necessary to meet AF supply chain objectives. 2.2.2.  Develop  Policy  and  implementing  guidance  that  provides  the  direction  and oversight necessary to meet end-to-end supply chain requirements. 2.2.3.  Exercise enterprise oversight of materiel management, requirements, and stockage direction. 2.2.4.  Advocate for logistics resource requirements to the AF Corporate Structure. 2.2.5.  Ensure development of AF workforce competencies for materiel management. 2.2.6.  Assign staff as necessary to assist the Defense Materiel Readiness Board (DMRB). 2.2.7.  Develop,  in  conjunction  with  SAF-CIO/A6,  policy  implementation  direction  and guidance for IT materiel management hardware and software. 2.3.  MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA Commanders shall: 2.3.1.  Ensure the management and control of materiel within production, manufacturing, repair, modification, overhaul, and testing functions performed at either: 2.3.1.1.  Organic or private sector facilities or 2.3.1.2.  Through public and private collaboration at those facilities. 2.3.2.  Ensure item accountability and visibility throughout the life-cycle of an asset. 2.3.3.  Promote and enforce supply discipline. 2.3.4.  Ensure  storage  of  material  IAW  AFJMAN  23-210,  Joint  Service  Manual  for Storage and Materials Handling. 2.4.  The  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC)  Commander,  in  addition  to  those responsibilities in paragraph  2.3 shall: 2.4.1.  Implement  methods  and  maintain  models  for  computing  enterprise  requirements including additive requirements for consumable items to SOS other than AF. 2.4.2.  Oversee  centralized  execution  of  AF  enterprise  materiel  management  operations and asset redistribution.  Exception: Not applicable to Air Reserve Components.   AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 5 2.5.  The  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC)  Commander,  in  addition  to  those responsibilities in paragraph  2.3 shall provide formal training for supply chain personnel to meet operational requirements.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force 6 AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 3110.05, Readiness-Based Materiel Condition Reporting for Mission-Essential Systems and Equipment, September 25, 2006. DoDI 4140.01, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy, December 14, 2011 DoDD 4140.58, National Guard and Reserve Equipment Report (NGRER), January 8, 2010 DoDI 4140.61, Customer Wait Time and Time Definite Delivery, December 14, 2000 DoDI 4140.63, Management of DoD Clothing and Textiles (Class II), August 5, 2008 DoDI 4161.02, Accountability and Management of Government Contract Property, April 27, 1997 DoDI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD Equipment and Other Accountable Property, May 19, 2011 DoDI 5128.34, Defense Materiel Readiness Board (DMRB), July 27, 2010 DoDM 4140.01, All Volumes, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Procedures AFPD 10-2, Readiness, November 6, 2012 AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces, Mary 17, 2006 AFPD 10-6, Capabilities Requirements Development, November 6, 2013 AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), April 30, 2009 AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, July 6, 2011 AFPD 20-1/63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, June 3, 2016 AFPD 21-2, Munitions, December 17, 2012 AFPD 24-2, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Materiel, April 27, 2011 AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, December 22, 2015 AFPD 38-1, Organization and Unit Designations, August 24, 2011 AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, February 2, 2012 AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, August 15, 2006 AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management, October 23, 2014 AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual for Storage and Materials Handling, April 12, 1994 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, June 9, 2016 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 7 Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force AETC—Air Education and Training Command AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DoDM—Department of Defense Manual DMRB—Defense Materiel Readiness Board HAF—Headquarters Air Force (Secretariat and Air Staff) IAW—In Accordance With IT—Information Technology MAJCOM—Major Command OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF or SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force UMMIPS—Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority System Terms AF  Corporate  Structure—Embodies the corporate review process for HQ USAF.  It does not replace  the  functional  staff  but,  rather,  enhances  it  by  allowing  time  critical  or  time  limited functional  reviews  at  the  appropriate  levels.    The  deliberative  components  of  the  Corporate Structure  are  the  Air  Force  Council,  the  Air  Force  Board,  the  Air  Force  Group,  and  various Mission and Mission Support Panels. Reference AFI 16-501 for composition and purpose. Commodity—A  homogenous  grouping  of  materiel  items.  (e.g.,  a  grouping  such  as  that designated by a Federal Supply Class). Cooperative  Logistics  Supply  Support  Arrangement  (CLSSA)—An  agreement  between  a Military  Department  and  a  purchaser;  setting  forth  the  terms  and  conditions  under  which  the DoD  will  provide  supply  support  of  common  weapons  systems  on  an  equal  basis  with  U.S. Forces  in  accordance  with  the  purchaser's  Force  Activity  Designator  (FAD)  and  the  Uniform Materiel Movement and Issue Priority System (UMMIPS). 8 AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Consumable  Items—Consumable  items  are  components  that  are  not  repaired  or  condemned higher than the base level after removal from an end item. Controlled  materiel—Materiel designated as having  characteristics which require that they be identified,  accounted  for,  secured,  segregated,  or  handled  in  a  special  manner  to  ensure  their safeguard or integrity.  Controlled materiel includes classified, NWRM, sensitive and pilferable items. Critical  Metals—Metals  that  are  essential  in  various  industrial  applications,  often  in  new  and green technologies, difficult to substitute and for which the main supply is restricted to just one or two countries. Demilitarization—The act of destroying the military offensive or defensive advantages inherent in certain types of equipment or materiel to prevent its unauthorized use. Defense  Materiel  Readiness  Board  (DMRB)—This  DoD-level  board  assesses  materiel readiness  and  evaluates  plans  and  policies  relating  to  materiel  readiness  in  accordance  with section 871 of Public Law 110-181, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. Distribution—The  operational  process  of  synchronizing  all  elements  of  the  logistic  system  to deliver the “right things” to the “right place” at the “right time.” End  Item—The  final  combination  of  end  products,  component  parts,  and/or  materials  that  is ready for its intended use; e.g., aircraft, mobile machine shop. In-Transit Visibility (ITV)—The ability to track the identity, status, and location of DoD units and  non-unit  cargo  (excluding  bulk  petroleum,  oils,  and  lubricants)  and  passengers,  medical patients,  and  personal  property  from  origin  to  consignee  or  destination  across  the  range  of military logistics operations. Inventory—Materiel  titled  to  the  U.S.    Government,  held  for  sale  or  issue,  held  for  repair,  or held pending transfer to disposal. Life Cycle—From system concept development through disposal; total phases through which an item passes from the time it is initially developed until it is either consumed in use or disposed. Maintenance—All  action  taken  to  retain  materiel  in  a  serviceable  condition  or  to  restore  it  to serviceability.  It includes inspection, testing, servicing, classification as to serviceability, repair, rebuilding and reclamation. Materiel—All  items  necessary  to  equip,  operate,  maintain,  and  support  military  activities without distinction as to its application for administrative or combat purposes. Materiel  Management—That  phase  of  military  logistics  that  includes  managing,  cataloging, demand and supply planning, requirements determinations, procurement, distribution, overhaul, and disposal of materiel. Materiel Manager—Any DoD activity or Agency that has been assigned materiel management responsibilities  for  the  DoD  and  participating  Federal  Agencies.   The  term  includes responsibilities  performed  by  either  wholesale  materiel  managers  or  retail  materiel  managers: managing, cataloging, demand and supply planning, requirements determination and definition, procurement, distribution, overhaul and repair of reparable materiel, and disposal of materiel. AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 9 Nuclear  Weapons  Related  Materiel  (NWRM)—Classified  or  unclassified  assemblies  and subassemblies  (containing  no  fissionable  or  fusionable  material)  identified  by  the  Military Departments  that  comprise  or  could  comprise  a  standardized  war  reserve  nuclear  weapon (including  equivalent  training  devices)  as  it  would  exist  once  separated/removed  from  its intended delivery vehicle.  A delivery vehicle is the portion of a weapon system that delivers a nuclear  weapon  to  its  target.    This  includes  cruise  and  ballistic  missile  airframes  as  well  as delivery aircraft. Personal Property—Property of any kind or interest except real property and records of the US Government. Policy—A  statement  of  important,  high-level  direction  that  guides  decisions  and  actions throughout  the  Air  Force.    (As  used  in  this  AFPD,  the  word  “Policy”  refers  to  what  is  SecAF approved; i.e. direction provided by the SecAF through AFPDs, AF Supplements to DoDDs, and AF  Policy  Memorandums.  Policy  guidance  refers  to  the  implementation  of  Policy  and  is provided through publications such as AFIs and AFMANs.) Positive  Inventory  Control  (PIC)—The  ability  to  identify  and  account  for  materiel  and  to  be cognizant  of  the  condition  and  location  of  these  items  in  near  real  time.  Assets  are  tightly controlled  and  in  secure  areas.  For  controlled  materiel,  PIC  is  maintained  at  the  serial  number level. Note: Reference AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management for a more specific definition in the context of NWRM. Precious Metals—Federal Supply Class 9660 items that are gold, silver, platinum, or palladium granulation and sponges, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium, and osmium recovered from items, such as photographic and x-ray film, spent photographic fixing solution, military accouterments, such as  insignia,  crucibles,  special  wires,  silver  cell  batteries,  missile  and  electronic  scrap,  turnings, desalter kits, brazing alloys, solder, and dental scrap. Product Support—A package of support functions required to field and maintain the readiness and operational capability of major weapon systems, subsystems, and components, including all functions related to weapon system readiness. Readiness—The  ability  of  US  military  forces  to  fight  and  meet  the  demands  of  the  national military strategy. Reclamation—The  process  of  removing  required,  serviceable  and  economically  repairable components and materiel from excess or surplus property. Reparable  Item—An item  of supply subject  to  economical  repair and for which the repair (at either  depot  or  field  level)  is  considered  in  satisfying  computed  requirements  at  any  inventory level. Requisition—An order for materiel, from the source of supply, by an authorized organization. Retail—Level  of  inventory  below  the  wholesale  level,  either  at  the  consumer  level  for  the purpose of directly providing materiel to ultimate users or at the intermediate or region level. Source of Supply—Any government organization exercising control over materiel. Strategic Metals—Metals which are required for national defense, but are threatened by supply disruptions due to limited domestic production. 10 AFPD 23-1  30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Supply  Chain—The  linked  activities  associated  with  providing  materiel  from  a  raw  material stage to an end user as a finished product its final disposition. Supply  Chain  Risk  Management—The identification,  assessment,  and quantification of potential supply chain disruptions with the objective to control exposure to risk or reduce its negative impact on supply chain performance. systematic Supply  Discipline—Refers  to  the  compliance  with  DoD  and  AF  supply  chain  policy  and procedures, especially in terms of abiding by requisition priorities within the UMMIPS. Surplus Property—Property which is not needed by any Federal agency. War  Reserve  Materiel—stock  required  to  sustain  operations  for  the  scenarios  authorized  for sustainability  planning  in  the  combatant  commander  war  plans  and  war  mobilization  planning documents.  