 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-82 7 JULY 2015 Personnel EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM (EFMP)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1S   Certified by: SAF/MR  (Mr. Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 5   This  Air  Force  policy  directive  (AFPD)  implements  policy  and  assigns  responsibilities  for  the Exceptional  Family  Member  Program  (EFMP).    This  AFPD  implements  DODI  1315.19, Authorizing  Special  Needs  Family  Members  Travel  Overseas  at  Government  Expense  and interfaces  with  AFPD  36-21,  Utilization  and  Classification  of  Air  Force  Military  Personnel,  AFPD  36-30,  Military  Entitlements,  and  40-7,  Medical  Support  to  Family  Member  Relocation and Exceptional Family Member Program – Medical (EFMP-M).  This publication applies to all Air Force Personnel including the Regular Air Force (RegAF), the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG) on Title 10 status.  ANG personnel on Title 32 status must utilize the following guidance unless otherwise directed by state law.  In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief  of  Staff,  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for  the Exceptional Family Member Program.  This publication may not be supplemented.  Ensure that all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).   2   AFPD36-82  7 JULY 2015 1.  Policy.  The Air Force (AF) is committed to fair and equitable assignment, support, and care actions for those Air Force members who have an exceptional family member (EFM) enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) consistent with established law and policy. 1.1.  Enrollment  in  EFMP  is  mandatory  for  all  active  duty  military  sponsors  who  support  a family member with special needs that is entitled to TRICARE. 1.2.  The  AF  EFMP  is  comprised  of  three  main  components:    Assignments  (EFMP-A), Family Support (EFMP-FS), and Medical (EFMP-M). 1.2.1.  EFMP-A:    AF  assignments  are  based  on  mission  requirements  and  selection  for assignment  is  based  on  established  criteria  derived  from  development  teams,  Air  Force Specialty  Code  (AFSC),  time  on  station  (TOS),  and  other  mission  and  duty  related necessities. 1.2.1.1.  Special  needs  of  a  member’s  EFM(s)  are  considered  following  assignment selection  and  are  based  on  the  review  actions  for  available  support  at  the  projected gaining location. 1.2.1.2.  Established  assignment  procedures  empower  Airmen  to  make  informed decisions while balancing career and family needs. 1.2.1.3.  When  the  selected  assignment  location  is  unable  to  support,  EFMP  re-assignment    options  will  be  provided  pursuant  to  AF  assignment  procedures  to  the sponsor who has a family member with special needs. 1.2.2.  EFMP-FS:  Airman and Family Readiness Centers (A&FRC) provide community support  to  enhance  the  quality  of  life  of  family  members  of  active  duty  sponsors  who have  special  needs.    EFMP-FS  coordinators/core  compliance  experts  provide  non-medical information and referral (I&R) and maintain federal, state and local resources for sponsors  and  family  members.    A&FRCs  coordinate  with  other  EFMP  functions  to provide comprehensive and coordinated EFM support to the base community. 1.2.3.  EFMP-M:  The medical component of EFMP identifies, enrolls, and provides care and referral processes for eligible family members who have special needs, and identifies medical  and  educational  service  requirements  of  family  members  in  support  of  RegAF sponsor reassignment and civilian employment overseas. 1.2.3.1.  Special  Needs  Coordinators  (SNC)  located  in  MTFs  provide  the  direct support  and  contact  points  for  members  who  have  family  members  with  special needs; identifies medical and educational service requirements of family members in support of active duty sponsor reassignment and civilians employment overseas. 1.2.3.2.  SNCs enroll identified family members with special needs in the EFMP. 1.3.  When a family member’s condition(s) meet enrollment criteria, an assignment limitation code “Q” is entered in the active duty sponsor’s electronic personnel record; the “Q” code is used  by  medical  and  educational  authorities  to  consider  special  needs  when  sponsors  are projected for assignment. 2.  Definitions.  Terms used in this Policy Directive are defined in Attachment 1. AFPD36-82  7 JULY 2015   3  3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary  and  provides  guidance,  direction,  and  oversight  for  all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets addressing the Air Force Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP). 3.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural guidance for the management of the Air Force Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP). 3.2.1.  The  Director,  Air  Force  Services  (AF/A1S)  is  responsible  for  administering  the day-to-day activities of AF EFMP. 3.2.1.1.  Provides  the  AF  with  a  single  point  of  contact  (POC)  to  advocate  for  and represent  the  three  main  components  of  AF  EFMP  and  provide  over-arching  EFMP policy through appropriate AF directives and instructions. 3.2.1.2.  Assesses  variations  in  established  procedures  for  AF-led  joint  communities and  joint  bases  to  ensure  consistent  program  delivery  and  expectations  of  assigned populations, in accordance with established procedures. 3.2.1.3.  Develops formal coordination and review processes for policy updates, issue resolution,  and  program  changes  necessary  to  maintain  consistent  service  delivery and  respondent  to  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  Office  of  Special  Needs requirements. 3.2.1.4.  Develops  policy  for  the  EFMP-FS  component  within  Airman  and  Family Readiness  Centers  (A&FRC)  in  support  of  installation  leadership  and  assigned populations. 3.2.2.  The  Director,  Force  Management  Policy  (AF/A1P)  is  responsible  for  developing and promulgating AF assignment policies that maintain fair and equitable procedures for all eligible Airmen who have exceptional family members. 3.2.3.  Commander,  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC)  is  responsible  for  providing operational  assignment  processes  consistent  with  fairness  and  equality  for  all  Airmen based  on  the  needs  of  AF  missions;  and,  establishing  or  maintaining  field  operating guidance for EFMP-FS support staff as part of A&FRC capabilities. 3.3.  The Surgeon General (AF/SG) is the HAF Focal Point for health care policies, clinical practice  guidelines,  related  procedures,  and  standards  governing  Air  Force  healthcare programs in support of  AF EFMP. 3.3.1.  Maintains SNC capability at servicing Military Treatment Facilities (MTF). 3.3.2.  Ensure  special  needs  family  members  are  provided  support  to  navigate  the healthcare services necessary and care coordination, as applicable.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD36-82  7 JULY 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DODI 1315.19, Authorizing Special Needs Family Members Travel Overseas at Government Expense, 20 December 2005 AFI 36-3009, Airman and Family Readiness Centers (A&FRC), 7 May 2013 AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009 AFI 40-701, Medical Support to Family Member Relocation and Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP), 15 February 2012 AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1 April 1998 AFPD 36-30, Military Entitlements, 2 August 2003 AFPD 40-7, Medical Support to Family Member Relocation and Exceptional Family Member Program – Medical (EFMP-M), 4 September 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 HAF Mission Directive 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs, 15 December 2008  HAF Mission Directive 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of The Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services, 1 July 2009 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code EFM—Exceptional Family Member EFMP—Exceptional Family Member Program EFMP—A – Exceptional Family Member Program Assignments EFMP—FS – Exceptional Family Member Program Family Support EFMP—M – Exceptional Family Member Program Medical FP—Focal Point AFPD36-82  7 JULY 2015   5  HAF—Headquarters Air Force MTF—Military Treatment Facility OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility POC—Point of Contact SNC—Special Needs Coordinator TOS—Time on Station Terms Assignment— the notification and relocation of a military member to either a continental United States or overseas military installation. Exceptional Family Member— an individual who has special medical or educational needs and is a dependent family member of a military sponsor. Joint  Base—  a  combined  installation  pursuant  to  Base  Realignment  and  Closure  action, resulting  in  a  lead  “supporting”  component  and  one  or  more  “supported”  components  of  other military services. Joint Community— an installation where one service is the host and other non-AF services are located as either tenants or other activity within the installation. Q-Code— is a code in the military records system to indicate the presence of family members with  special  needs  and  is  used  by  medical  and  educational  authorities  when  sponsors  are projected for assignment.  