 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-3 28 AUGUST 2014 Financial Management INTERNAL AUDITING   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website  www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   AFAA/DOV  Supersedes:   AFPD65-3, 21 April 2010 Certified by: SAF/AG (Mr. Daniel F. McMillin) Pages: 4   This  directive  implements  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Instruction  7600.02,  Audit  Policies; DoD  Instruction  7600.06,  Audit  of  Nonappropriated  Fund  Instrumentalities  and  Related Activities; and DoD Manual 7600.07-M,  DoD Audit Manual,.  This directive applies to all Air Force  organizations  and  activities,  including  the  Air  National  Guard  and  Air  Force  Reserve.  This  directive  establishes  policies  regarding  the  use  of  audits  to  improve  programs;  make financial  reporting  more  accurate;  and  ensure  public  resources  are  used  efficiently,  effectively, economically, and legally throughout the Air Force. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  Air  Force  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  appropriate  functional’s  chain  of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision removes reference to the Deputy Auditor General and the Assistant Deputy Auditor General and updates the reference for DoD Instruction 7600.6.     2  AFPD65-3  28 AUGUST 2014 1.  Policy:  It is Air Force policy that: 1.1.  Under the guidance and direction of the Auditor General (SAF/AG), the Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) is the sole provider of internal audit services to the Air Force.  The AFAA is  organizationally  placed  to  maintain  the  independence  required  by  both  Public  Law  and Comptroller  General  Government  auditing  standards.    Auditors  will  not perform  line,  staff, or other collateral duties that would impair this independence. 1.2.  All  Air  Force  organizations,  functions,  activities,  and  levels  of  operations  may  be audited. 1.3.  Air  Force  management  will  use  audit  reports  as  recommendations  to  help  correct deficiencies and prevent their recurrence. 1.4.  Audits  will  not  interfere  with  combat  operations.    Audits  within  combat  theaters  will emphasize the adequacy and effectiveness of combat support and the controls used to prevent unauthorized diversion of equipment, supplies, or other resources. 1.5.  The Air Force shall contract with a licensed Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firm to conduct  independent  audits  of  nonappropriated  fund  activities.    However,  Air  Force personnel rather than CPA firms, should be used for audits involving potential fraud or other serious support  of  Nonappropriated  Fund Instrumentality audits is the preferred method for funding such audits.  Other audits may not be  contracted  out  unless  the  AFAA  determines  it  does  not  have  the  expertise  to  complete them  or  it  needs  temporary  help  to  meet  legal  or  regulatory  requirements  and  subject  to review and approval of the OAIG APO, IG DoD. improprieties.  Nonappropriated fund 1.6.  Air  Force  management  will  ensure  that  properly  cleared  AFAA  auditors  have  full  and unrestricted  access  to  all  personnel,  records,  equipment,  facilities,  information  systems, networks,  databases,  or  other  Air  Force  resources  needed  to  meet  an  announced  audit objective.  After  proper  clearances  are  confirmed,  auditors  usually  have  access  without reference to higher authority.  Only the Secretary of the Air Force may deny AFAA auditors access to Air Force records. 2.  Responsibilities: 2.1.  The SAF/AG is specifically responsible for: 2.1.1.  Serving as head of the Air Force Audit Agency. 2.1.2.  Establishing  the  overall  program  for  internal  audits  within  the  Air  Force  in accordance  with  existing  statutes,  Comptroller  General  government  auditing  standards, and Department  of Defense policies.   The internal  audit program  provides independent, objective,  and  constructive  reviews  and  appraisals  of  the  economy,  effectiveness,  and efficiency with which managerial responsibilities are carried out at all levels of Air Force management. 2.1.3.  Advising  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Under  Secretary,  Assistant  Secretaries, Chief  of  Staff  and  Deputy  Chiefs  of  Staff,  United  States  Air  Force,  and  other Headquarters Air Force offices about internal audit and related matters. 2.1.4.  Communicating directly with the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff, and all other Air Force elements on audit matters. AFPD65-3  28 AUGUST 2014   3  2.1.5.  Serving  as  the  disclosure  or  denial  authority  for  all  AFAA  reports  of  audit  and supporting audit records under the Freedom of Information Act. 2.2.  The Air Force Audit Agency will: 2.2.1.  Without  limitation,  select  activities  for  audit  based  on  internal  risk  assessments, management requests, and resource availability.  The AFAA will determine the scope of audit  work,  perform  the  necessary  audit  work  and  report  results  to  senior  Air  Force management. 2.2.2.  Remain  independent  from  all  activities  it  audits.      In  all  matters  relating  to  the audit  work,  auditors  should  be  free  in  both  mind  and  appearance  from  impairments  to independence. 2.2.3.  Follow government auditing standards, and its reports will include recommended corrective  actions  and  management’s  position  on  the  issues  discussed  in  the  report.  Auditors will not develop systems, methods, or procedures, nor will they change or order changes in the audited activity’s operations.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD65-3  28 AUGUST 2014 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ATTACHMENT 1 References DODI 7600.02, Audit Policies, April 27, 2007 DODI 7600.06, Audit of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFI) and Related Activities, November 5, 2012 DOD 7600.07-M,  DoD Audit Manual, February 13, 2009 United States Government Accountability Office, Government Auditing Standards, 2011 Revision. Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms  AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency CPA—Certified Public Accountant DoD—Department of Defense Terms Government Auditing Standards—Generally accepted government auditing standards that are used by auditors who examine the federal government.  The standards apply to both financial and performance audits of government agencies. Independence—In  all  matters  relating  to  the  audit  work,  the  audit  organization  and  the individual  auditor,  whether  government  or  public,  must  be  independent.    Independence comprises: a.  Independence of Mind—The state of mind that permits the performance of an audit without being  affected  by  influences  that  compromise  professional  judgment,  thereby  allowing  an individual to act with integrity and exercise objectivity and professional skepticism. b.  Independence in Appearance—The absence of circumstances that would cause a reasonable and informed third party, having knowledge of the relevant information, to reasonably conclude that the integrity, objectivity, or professional  skepticism of an audit organization or member of the audit team had been compromised.  Refers to the independence of the internal auditor or of the external auditor from parties that may have a financial interest in the business being audited.  Independence  requires  integrity  and  an  objective  approach  to  the  audit  process.    The  concept requires the auditor to carry out his or her work freely and in an objective manner.  