Administrative Changes to AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System OPR:  SAF/AQCP  1.  Certifying Official:  SAF/AQC (Mr. Roger S. Correll)  2.  References to AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, should be changed to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, throughout the publication.  3.  Delete the following three references in Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information, and replace with HAF Mission Directive 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), April 8, 2009, as these three references were revoked and incorporated into HAF MD 1-10.  (i) (ii) (iii) Secretary of the Air Force Order 101.1. Authority and Responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), June 5, 1999 and SAF/AQ Memorandum, Subject: Delegation of Contract and Agreement Authority, 30 Nov 1999;  Secretary of the Air Force Order 640.11, Amendment of Contracts Without Consideration, Correction of Mistakes in Contracts, and Formalization of Informal commitments Under Public Law 85-804, October 30, 1997; and  Secretary of the Air Force Order 650.3, Functions of the Air Force Competition Advocate General and Procuring Activity Advocates for Competition, October 30, 1997.  1 March 2011  BY THE ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 64-17 DECEMBER 2006 Certified Current on,1 May 2015ContractingTHE  CONTRACTING SYSTEMCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing site at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR: SAF/AQCPSupersedes AFPD 64-1, 22 Mar 1993Certified by: SAF/AQC(Mr. Charlie E. Williams, Jr.)Pages: 5This directive defines and explains the Air Force contracting system, whose primary mission is to acquireand support warfighter capabilities through responsive business solutions. See Attachment 1 for publica-tions implemented by this policy direct ive. Ensure that all records crea ted as a result of processes pre-scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,  Management of Records,and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. To recommend changes, conflicts, suggestions, or recommendations to departmentalpublications, use the AF IMT 847 and route it throu gh the publishing channels to the OPR for the publi-cation. This publication is applicable to the Air Force Reserve but not  to the Air National Guard (ANG)or the Civil Air Patrol (CAP). SUMMARY OF CHANGESAFPD is revised to update OPR and Certifier individual, to remove requirement for Measures of Compli-ance with Policy and to update the reference information. 1. The Air Force relies on its contracting system to acquire the supplies and services essential to its oper-ations and warfighting mission. This directive establishes policies to ensure the Air Force contracting sys-tem acquires supplies and services that support customer needs at reasonable prices. The system must alsomeet statutory and regulatory requirements. 2. The contracting system will be responsive to mission needs and requirements, and will award contractsthat are in the best interests of the Government. The Air Force will contract for supplies and services usingthe Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), current edition, the Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS), cur-rent edition, the Air Force FAR Supplement (AFFARS), and related Air Force instructions (AFI), policymemorandums (PM) and informational guidance (IG). 2AFPD64-1   7 DECEMBER 20062.1.  The contracting system will foster an environment where contracting activities and their custom-ers are a team dedicated to meeting Air Force requirements. The customer and the contracting activitywill follow sound business practices in making decisions to support the contracting process. They alsowill exercise the highest  standards of ethical conduct and fiscal responsibility. Contract actions mustinspire public trust in the Air Force acquisition process. 2.2.  The contracting system includes: effective acquisition planning, solicitation, cost or price analy-sis; evaluation of offers; source selection; contract award; and contract administration. The contract-ing activity will provide sound business advice on acquisitions accomplished by other non-Air Force/non-DoD activities for Air Force customers. 3.  The Air Force will treat all offerors and contractors fairly and equitably. It also will ensure contractorsperform according to the contract terms and conditions. Procedures to resolve disputes between contrac-tors and their employees are set by law; the Air Force will remain neutral in dealing with contract-relatedlabor disputes that may occur on Air Force installations. 4.  Air Force contracting activities and  their customers will consider bo th technical needs and businessstrategies when defining and specifying requirements. They will ensure specifications reflect only what isneeded to meet the require ments of the mission. They will ensure sp ecifications and statements of workwill not unnecessarily restrict comp etition or innovation. They will use commercial  item descriptions asmuch as practicable and functional specifications instead of detailed design specifications whenever rea-sonable. 5.  Air Force contracting activities will employ qualified military and civilian members of the acquisitionwork force. The Air Force will implement the Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) toensure all people in the contracti ng work force have the opportunity  for training, education and experi-ence needed to meet certification requirements and qualify for advancement. 6.  The following responsibilities and authorities are established: 6.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force has delegated contracting authority to specific acquisition officialswho redelegate the authority to contracting officers. The authority delegated to contracting officers tobind the Government on behalf of the Air Force is specific and limited, and carries with it a responsi-bility to act with the ut most integrity and proprie ty. Those individuals dele gated this authority andresponsibility, together with thei r commanders and supervisors, wi ll ensure their actions are withindelegated authority and that the highest standards of conduct and business practices are maintained. 6.2.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (A cquisition), SAF/AQ, is the Senior ProcurementExecutive (SPE). 6.3.  The Deputy Assistant Secretar y (Contracting), SAF/AQC, develops and implements Air Forcecontracting policies and procedures, and performs surveillance of major command contracting activi-ties. SAF/AQC also serves as the Competition Advocate General for the Air Force, acts as the seniorcontracting advisor to the SPE and provides functional management for Air Force contracting person-nel. AFPD64-1   7 DECEMBER 20067.  Terms Explained: 37.1.  The SPE is the individual responsible for the overall management of the Air Force acquisitionand contracting system. 7.2.  The contracting of ficer (CO) is an individual specifically appoi nted by the Secretary of the AirForce or designee with th e authority to enter into, administer, or terminate contracts and executerelated determinations and findings within the limits of the authority delegated. Only a properly war-ranted CO has the authority to contractually bind the Government on behalf of the Air Force. 8.  This policy directive applies to purchases of and contracts for supplies or services using appropriatedfunds. It may also apply to other business arrangements, such as leasing aircraft to outside parties, enter-ing into Cable TV franchise agreem ents on Air Force ins tallations, and grants  and cooperative agree-ments. Purchases and cont racts using nonappropriated funds (NAF) will comply  with designated AirForce instructions. Air Force contracting offices will provide contracting surveillance assistance to NAFpurchasing activities. MICHAEL W. WYNNE Secretary of the Air Force 4AFPD64-1   7 DECEMBER 2006Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATIONReferences This directive implements instructions from the following documents: Title 10, United States Code Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended (Title 41, United States Code, 401, et seq.) Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS), Subpart 5301.6, Contracting Authorityand Responsibilities Secretary of the Air Force Order 101.1, Authority and Responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of the AirForce (Acquisition), June 5, 1999 and SAF/ AQ Memorandum, Subject: Delegation of Contract andAgreement Authority, 30 Nov 1999 Secretary of the Air Force Order 640.1 1, Amendment of Contracts Without Consideration, Correction ofMistakes in Contracts, and Formalization of Informal Commitments Under Public Law 85-804, October30, 1997 Secretary of the Air Force Orde r 650.3, Functions of the Air Force Competition Advocate General andProcuring Activity Advocates for Competition, October 30, 1997 This directive interfaces with the following documents: AFFARS, Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, 2002 Edition AFPD 64-2, Small Business Program, 1 May 1996 AFPD 64-3, The Non-Appropriated Fund Contracting System,  1 December 2005 AFI 64-101, Cable Television (CATV) Systems On US Air Force Installations , 1 December 2005AFI 64-102, Operational Contracting Program, 25 July 2005AFI 64-103, Leasing US Air Force Aircraft and Related Equipment to Non-government Organizations, 1 May 1997 AFI 64-105, Contract Reporting and Contract Profit Reporting System, 1 August 2000 AFI 64-106, Industrial Labor Relations Activities, 25 March 1994 AFI 64-117,  Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC), 31 January 2006AFI 64-201, Small Business Programs, 1 January 1997AFI64-301, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting Policy, 12 February 2002 AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 1 August 1994 AFPAM 38-102, Headquarters United States Air Force Organization and Functions, 1 January 2004 AFPD64-1   7 DECEMBER 20065Abbreviations and Acronyms AFFARS—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive ANG—Air National Guard APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program CAP—Civil Air Patrol CFR—Code of Federal Regulations CO—Contracting Officer DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement DoD—Department of Defense FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation IG—Informational Guidance NAF—Nonappropriated funds OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PDO—Publishing Distribution Office PEO—Program Executive Officer PM—Policy Memoranda PMD—Program Management Directive SAF/AQ—Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) SAF/AQC—Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) SAF/AQCP—Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) (Policy Division) SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force SPE—Senior Procurement Executive U.S.C.—United States Code 