 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-6 7 MARCH 2012 Personnel CIVILIAN CAREER FIELD MANAGEMENT  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A1PF  Supersedes:   AFPD 36-6, 21 October 1994 Certified by: AF/A1 (Lt Gen Darrell D. Jones) Pages: 7   This  Directive  implements  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  1430.2  Civilian  Career  Management,  and provides  the  strategic  direction  and  vision  for  alignment  of  all  Air  Force  civilian  career  field management  initiatives  and  programs.    The  civilian  force  is  a  key  part  of  the  Total  Force  and must possess the competencies necessary to meet current and emerging missions.  Career fields must  be  healthy,  sustainable,  and  have  the  agility  necessary  to  contend  with  uncertainty  in  the environment.  Effective management of the civilian force calls for plans, processes, and policies that address unique civilian requirements, and also allow for integration into the Total Force.   This Directive applies to all Air Force activities excluding Air National Guard (Title 32 United States  Code)  and  Non-appropriated  Fund  (NAF)  Instrumentalities  except  as  allowed  under statute.    Civilian  Force  Management  policies,  plans  and  programs  will  be  aligned  with  the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) and DoD and Air Force Civilian Strategic Human Capital Plans to ensure efficiency, effectiveness and unity of purpose. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication; route  AF  Form  847s  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of  command.  Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records, and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.   2  AFPD36-6  7 MARCH 2012 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include changing the title from “Civilian Career Management” to “Civilian Career Field Management” to signify that the civilian force is now patterned after military career field structure, and deletes all references to civilian career programs from the text of this Policy Directive. 1.  Policy.  The Air Force will: 1.1.  Establish,  develop  and  maintain  sustainable  and  healthy  career  fields  via  a comprehensive  program  that  forecasts,  accesses,  sustains,  develops  and  separates  civilian employees through a process of continual renewal. 1.2.  Adhere  to  Force  Management  and  Development  Council  (FMDC)  and  Civilian  Force Development  Panel  (CFDP)  initiatives  approved  by  CSAF/SecAF  to  meet  enterprise  force structure  and  programmatic  requirements.   Utilize  a  sustainable  force  management framework that ensures a diverse force of trained and experienced candidates is available and prepared  to  fill  professional  career  field  and  corporate  leadership  positions  located throughout  the  Air  Force  and  the  DoD  to  include  defense  agencies,  Joint  and  Combatant Commands (COCOMs). 1.3.  Develop  and  implement  a  competency-based  workforce  management  approach  that incorporates  both  occupational  and  institutional  competencies.    This  approach  will  work  in concert with DoD competency initiatives and programs to meet mission critical occupational (MCO) standards and objectives under the DoD Civilian Strategic Human Capital Planning structure. 1.4.  Pursuant  to  Federal  statutory  requirements  and  AF  policy  in  AFPD  36-27,  Equal Opportunity,  and  AFPD  36-70,  Diversity,  ensure  that  a  diverse  civilian  force  is  developed and managed free from discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, status as a parent, national origin, age, disability, reprisal, or genetic information. 1.5.  Develop  civilian  career  field  management  plans  and  programs  based  on  valid requirements  and  priorities  identified  by  HAF,  Major  Command  (MAJCOM)  commanders, career  field  managers  and  those  specified  by  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM), OSD, and Air Force directives. 1.6.  Provide  program  resources  and  overall  guidance  and  direction  to  comply  with  OPM, OSD and Air Force policy. 1.7.  Manage programs based on performance-based criteria to measure effectiveness of key programs and processes through results-based performance evaluation. 1.8.  Ensure  civilian  career  field  management  resources  are  allocated  to  meet  priority requirements;  civilian  accession  initiatives  produce  the  workforce  capabilities  needed  to accomplish  the Air Force mission;  and provide for the timely and effective management of the civilian force. 1.9.  Provide experiential leadership opportunities for high potential civilian employees that broaden their skills and/or enhance their leadership perspective. AFPD36-6  7 MARCH 2012   3  2.  Responsibilities and Authorities: 2.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) provides  guidance,  direction,  and  oversight  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  formulation, review and execution of plans, policies and programs and budgets addressing civilian career field management. 2.2.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  and implements  Force  Management  policy  and  strategy,  and  implements  Force  Management Doctrine  in  order  to  synchronize  Force  Management  implementation  consistent  with  policy and  goals  through  Air  Force  Instruction  36-601,  Civilian  Employee  Career  Field Management. 2.3.  The  Force  Management  and  Development  Council  (FMDC)  provides  institutional perspective in  designing and implementing career field  management strategy,  guidance and policy, and in implementing Force Management doctrine. 2.4.  Air Education and Training Command (AETC) provides institutional and occupational competency  development  in  a  manner  that  is  consistent  with  this  policy.    AETC  provides resources  as  available  for  civilian  leadership  and  management  programs  that  are  developed and/or delivered by AETC. 2.4.1.  Functional  Authorities  (FA)  are  responsible  for  identifying,  validating,  and prioritizing  training  and  development  requirements  and  systematically  addressing shortfalls in resources to support those requirements. 2.4.1.1.  They  ensure  that  subordinate  career  fields  are  equipped,  developed,  and sustained to provide Air Force capabilities for world-wide employment. 2.4.1.2.  FAs oversee the development team process and are supported by Functional Managers  who  are  supported  by  Career  Field  Managers  responsible  for  the development  and  validation  of  occupational  competencies  for  their  functional  areas IAW guidance established by AF/A1. 2.5.  IAW  higher  headquarters  guidance,  commanders  and  supervisors  at  all  levels  plan, program, budget, and execute civilian career field management.  Given mission constraints, it is  their  responsibility  to  effectively  utilize  civilian  employees  who  complete  training  and development  courses/programs  to  ensure  sufficient  return  on  the  AF  investment  in  training and development. 3.  Civilian Career Field Management Goals 3.1.  Determine  career  field  management  requirements  and  programs  required  to  present identified civilian capabilities to accomplish the Air Force mission. 3.2.  Develop  career  field  management  strategies  and  guidance  that  assist  the  functional communities  with  their  succession  planning  by:  assessing  current  work  force  requirements; identifying  competency  gaps  due  to  work  force  deficiencies;  closing  competency  gaps  via force management initiatives; and forecasting future workforce requirements and shortages in either people or required competencies. AFPD36-6  7 MARCH 2012 3.3.  Synchronize  and  integrate  Air  Force  strategic  human  capital  planning  with  the Department  of  Defense’s  mission  critical  occupation  (MCO)  program  and  force  renewal efforts  in  order  to  support  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense’s  human  capital requirements across all services, defense agencies, combatant and joint commands.   4   MICHAEL B. DONLEY Secretary of the Air Force AFPD36-6  7 MARCH 2012   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Title 5, United States Code, Chapter 41, February 1, 2010 5 USC 5379, February 1, 2010 Executive Order 13160, June 23, 2000 Part 410 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, December 17, 1996 DoDI 1400.25, Volume 250, Civilian Strategic Human Capital Planning, November 18, 2008 DoDI 1430.02, Civilian Career Management, April 6, 2006 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011 AFPD 36-27, Equal Opportunity (EO), 22 May 2009 AFPD 36-70, Diversity, 13 October 2010 AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002 AFI 36-601, Civilian Employee Career Field Management, 25 July 1994 AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 27 February 2009 AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program, 29 July 2004 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, September 22, 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms AETC—Air Education and Training Command AFMAN—Air Force Manual CFDP—Civilian Force Development Panel COCOM—Combatant Commander DoD—Department of Defense DODI—Department of Defense Instruction FMDC—Force Management and Development Council MAJCOM—Major Command MCO—Mission Critical Occupation NAF—Non-appropriated Fund OPM—Office of Personnel Management OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility   6  AFPD36-6  7 MARCH 2012 OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense QDR—Quadrennial Defense Review RDS—Records Disposition Schedule Terms Competencies—  A  measurable  pattern  of  skills,  knowledge,  abilities,  behaviors,  and  other characteristics  which  an  individual  needs  to  perform  work  roles  or  occupational  functions successfully. Career  Field  Manager  (CFM)—  The  AF  focal  point  for  the  designated  career  field  within  a functional community.  Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues and coordinating  functional  concerns  across  various  staffs.  Responsible  for  the  career  field  policy and  guidance.    Must  be  appointed  by  the  FM  and  hold  the  grade  of  Colonel/GS-15/PB-03  (or equivalent) for officer and DAF civilian specialties, and the grade of Chief Master Sergeant for enlisted airmen. Civilian  Force  Development  Panel—  An  advisory  body  to  the  Force  Management Development Panel, by the Deputy AF/A1.  Panel membership is comprised of a mix of senior functional  leaders  who  devise  force  management  and  development  initiatives  to  support enterprise-wide  development  of  civilian  employees  who:  provide  essential  technical  and occupational expertise; to meet current and emerging Air Force missions. Development  Teams  (DT)—  Provide oversight  of officer and civilian personnel development to meet both functional and Air Force corporate leadership requirements. Experience— Active participation/involvement  in  positions, events,  or activities leading to  the accumulation of knowledge or skill that can be utilized to meet mission requirements. Force  Development— Creating levels of proficiency in institutional competencies that include leadership,  management,  enterprise  and  warrior  skills  and  occupational  competencies  that concern  the  technical  aspect  of  a  function.    Proficiency  levels  are  generally  built  through education, training and experience. Force  Management  and  Development  Council  (FMDC)—    Serves  as  a  corporate  body  to provide  an  institutional  perspective  on  AF-wide  FD  issues  and  make  recommendations  to  the SecAF and CSAF on USAF-wide force management and development issues for the purpose of developing  the  necessary  competencies  within  our  officer,  enlisted  and  civilian  force.  The FMDC  is  co-chaired  by  the  USecAF  and  AF/CV.  Advisors  to  the  FMDC  include  the Commander of the Air University as well as the Superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy. Force Management Framework— The entire spectrum of Air Force human capital policy and guidance,  programs  and  initiatives  including,  but  not  limited  to,  workforce  planning,  force renewal,  accessions,  compensation,  sustainment,  experiential  assignments,  career  path development, performance management and awards, separations and retirement.  The framework enables  us  to  systematically  manage  the  life-cycles  of  sufficient  numbers  of  employees,  under merit  principles  and  free  from  discriminatory  actions,  to  maintain  the  Air  Force  competencies and mission capabilities required to achieve current and future assigned objectives and taskings in support of national security goals. AFPD36-6  7 MARCH 2012   7  Functional  Authority  (FA)— The final authority to ensure compliance within their functional community with all guidance established to implement this directive.  Functional Authorities are supported by Functional Managers who are supported by Career Field Managers. Functional  Manager  (FM)— Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate  FAs, who provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities. While they should maintain  an  institutional  focus  with  regard  to  resource  development  and  distribution,  FMs  are responsible for ensuring  their specialties are equipped, developed,  and sustained to  provide AF capabilities. Institutional  Competencies—  Common  taxonomy  used  to  implement  the  Continuum  of Learning.  These leadership competencies are expected of all Airmen, throughout their careers, and  will  be  the  competencies  needed  to  operate  successfully  in  the  constantly  changing environment in which they function.  The three categories of these competencies are mapped to the Air Force leadership levels. Mission  Critical  Occupations  (MCO)—  Occupational  series  identified  by  the  Department  of Defense, the components and defense agencies as being paramount capabilities in supporting the Quadrennial  Defense  Review  goals  of  defeating  terrorist  networks,  defending  the  homeland  in depth, shaping the choices of countries at strategic crossroads, and preventing the acquisition or use of weapons of mass destruction.  MCOs are the focus of the DoD’s enterprise competency analysis,  succession  planning,  and  hiring  and  recruitment  initiatives.    The  MCO  listing undergoes constant review and revision to meet the changing threats. Occupational  Competencies—  Competencies  specific  to  certain  functions  or  occupations.  They  are  related  to  specific  areas  of  expertise  that  enable  individuals  to  successfully  perform their unique duties. Proficiency  Level—  The  demonstration  of  the  attainment  and  sustainment  of  a  level  of competence against a five-point proficiency scale. Training— Set of events or activities presented in a structured or planned manner through one or  more  media  for  the  attainment  and  retention  of  skills,  knowledge,  and  attitudes  required  to meet  job  performance  requirements.    This  involves  the  coaching  and  mentoring  of  Airmen, resulting in proficiency development.  