BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 11-110 AUGUST 2004Flying OperationsFLYING HOUR PROGRAMNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ USAF/XOOTF (Lt Col Michael Tillema) Supersedes AFPD 11-1, 30 January 1995 Certified by: HQ USAF/XO(Lt Gen Ronald E. Keys)Pages: 3Distribution: FThis directive provides guidelines to ensure all directly assigned units at and above the squadron levelreceive timely and effective guidance for the Air Force flying hour program. Ensure that records createdas a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFM 37-123,Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule(RDS) (https://webrims.amc.af.mil). SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision reflects HQ USAF staff changes, inputs from major commands (MAJCOM) and recent pub-lication changes. Changes include the phrase “Total Air Force” which comprises the Active Air Force, AirNational Guard, and the Air Force Reserve. Another change discusses planning the flying hour programbased on peacetime, home station training requirements. A final change is the sample metric included inthe Attachment. 1.  The Air Force flying hour program is a closely monitored program that equates flying hours to combatcapability. To meet these expectations, the Air Force must explicitly program flying hours that fully sup-port required capability and then execute the resources associated with flying hours. This directive pro-vides policies for all in the “Total Air Force” (Active Air Force, Air National Guard, and the Air ForceReserve) who are accountable for the flying-hour program. 2.  This directive establishes the following policies. The Air Force will: 2.1.  Plan the flying hour program based on peacetime, home station training requirements. 2.2.  Execute its approved flying hour program to the maximum extent possible. 2.3.  Allocate resources to support its approved flying hour program. 2AFPD11-1   10 AUGUST 20043.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities: 3.1.  HQ USAF/XO provides policy, resource advocacy, and oversight of Air Force flying hour pro-gram. 3.2.  Major commands identify flying hour requirements based on peacetime, home station trainingrequirements and execute their programs to comply with these policies. 3.3.  MAJCOM requests for programmatic changes (Program Change Requests) to their flying hourprograms will be submitted to HQ USAF/XPP for SECAF and Chief of Staff approval. 3.4.  MAJCOM requests for unanticipated changes to their flying hour programs in the execution yearwill be coordinated through HQ USAF/XOOT with an informational copy to SAF/FMBOO. 4.  This directive applies to all personnel in the “Total Air Force” (Active Air Force, Air National Guard,and the Air Force Reserve). 5.  Related instructions are AFI 11-101, Management Reports on the Flying Hour Program, AFI 11-102,Flying Hour Program Management, and soon to be published AFI 11-103, Aircraft Standard UtilizationRate Procedures. 6.  See Attachment 1 for metric used to measure compliance with the policy. JAMES G. ROCHE Secretary of the Air Force AFPD11-1   10 AUGUST 20043MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY Attachment 1     A1.1.  Compliance with the flying hour program is assessed by comparing reported flying hour executionwith the programmed President’s Budget (PB) flying hours. A1.1.1.  Programmed flying hour levels (Figure A1.1.) are reflected in the Congressionally approvedflying hour program for each fiscal year. They are available in the budget year’s Programming Docu-ment Vol II and the AF/XOOT “Initial MAJCOM FYxx President’s Budget/Financial Plan FlyingHour” message. A1.1.2.  Flying hour execution will be determined using information reflected in the MAJCOM’smonthly execution reports (see AFI 11-101). A1.1.3.  Dividing reported flying hour execution by the related PB flying hour program yields the per-cent of PB program executed. This percentage may indicate potential problems and areas of concern.This data also forms a yearly historical record of program execution. Figure A1.1.  Sample Metric of USAF Flying Hour Execution. 