BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 51-4 4 AUGUST 2011 Law COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW OF ARMED CONFLICT  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the   e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/JAO  Supersedes:   AFPD 51-4, 26 April 1993 Certified by: AF/JA (Lt Gen Richard C. Harding) Pages: 6   This Directive establishes policies to ensure that the Air Force and its personnel comply with the Law  of  Armed  Conflict  (LOAC)  by  requiring  that:    all  AF  personnel  are  adequately  trained regarding  LOAC;  all  reportable  incidents  are  properly  investigated  and  reported;  and  that  all weapons and cyber capabilities are reviewed for compliance with domestic and international law.  This  Directive  implements  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  2311.01E,  Law  of  War Program,  and  is  consistent  with  CJCSI  5810.01D,  Implementation  of  the  DoD  Law  of  War Program.    This  Directive  applies  to  all  Air  Force  personnel,  including  civilian  employees, members  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  and  contractors  or subcontractors assigned to or accompanying the force. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through appropriate functional’s change of command.  Ensure that all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Disposition Schedule located Air Force Records SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document has been substantially revised  and must be completely  reviewed.  This  revision updates  the  applicable  guidance  for  LOAC  training  frequency;  deletes  the  requirement  for separate  reporting  of  LOAC  training  by  legal  offices;  and  establishes  the  requirement  for  legal   2  AFPD51-4   4 AUGUST 2011 reviews  of  cyber  capabilities  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  LOAC,  international  and  domestic law. Section A—Compliance with LOAC 1.  Purpose.  LOAC,  also  referred  to  as  the  Law  of  War,  encompasses  all  international  and domestic law regulating the conduct of hostilities binding on the United States or its individual citizens,  including  treaties  and  international  agreements  to  which  the  United  States  is  a  party, domestic  law  implementing  those  treaties,  and  applicable  customary  international  law.    The LOAC  arises  from  civilized  nations’  humanitarian  desire  to  lessen  the  effects  of  conflicts.    It protects  combatants  from  unnecessary  suffering,  and  safeguards  the  basic  rights  of  non-combatants  and  civilians.    The  Air  Force  will  ensure  its  personnel  understand,  observe,  report, and enforce the LOAC and the US Government’s obligations under that law. 2.  Policy.  The Air Force will: 2.1.  Ensure  personnel  comply  with  the  LOAC  during  all  armed  conflicts,  however  such conflicts are characterized, and in all other military operations. 2.2.  Implement  effective  programs  to  prevent  violations  of  the  LOAC  and  make  qualified legal  advisers  at  all  levels  of  command  available  to  provide  advice  about  law  of  war compliance during the planning and execution of exercises and operations. 2.3.  Ensure  that  contract  work  statements  for  contractors  assigned  to  or  accompanying  the deploying forces are consistent with this policy, its implementing guidance, and AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management. 2.4.  In  coordination  with  the  Combatant  Commanders,  ensure  reportable  incidents committed  by  or  against  members  of  the  Air  Force,  or  persons  accompanying  them,  are promptly reported and investigated.  Where appropriate, the Air Force will promptly dispose of alleged violations of the law of war by personnel subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 2.5.  Provide for the central collection of reports of reportable incidents involving Air Force personnel  and forward  all reports of reportable incidents  against Air Force personnel  to  the Secretary  of  the  Army,  DoD’s  Executive  Agent  for  all  such  cases.    Cases  involving  U.S. civilians,  contractors  assigned  to  or  accompanying  the  forces,  or  dependents,  will  be forwarded to the DoD General Counsel through the Secretary of the Army for review. 3.  Responsibilities.  The  following  responsibilities  and  authorities  are  established  for  purposes of LOAC compliance: 3.1.  The  Judge  Advocate  General  (AF/JA)  serves  as  the  Air  Force  office  of  primary responsibility  (OPR)  to  ensure  effective  implementation  of  DoD  Law  of  War  programs within the Air Force.  AF/JA will: 3.1.1.  Provide comprehensive advice on requirements and content of the LOAC. 3.1.2.  Ensure qualified Air Force legal advisers are available at all levels of command to provide advice about law of war compliance during planning and execution of exercises and operations. AFPD51-4  4 AUGUST 2011   3  3.1.3.  Assist  commanders in  ensuring  all reportable incidents  are fully investigated and processed,  when  appropriate,  through  the  military  justice  system  and  pursuant  to  the requirements of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and other United States law. 3.1.4.  Periodically  review  and  evaluate  Air  Force  activities  to  ensure  that  effective programs  are  maintained  to  prevent  LOAC  violations,  including  the  review  of  such programs in connection with any reported violation. 3.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1), in coordination with  AF/JA,  develops  training  guidance  to  enable  effective  implementation  of  LOAC training for Air Force personnel. 3.3.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Operations (AF/A3/5) will ensure that Air Force plans,  policies  and  procedures  under  its  purview  incorporate  LOAC  considerations  where appropriate,  and  in  coordination  with  AF/JA,  will  ensure  legal  advisers  are  integrated  into exercises,  planning  activities  and  operations  to  enable  them  to  provide  advice  concerning domestic and international law, including law of war compliance. 3.4.  The Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG) develops procedures for the inspection of Air Force activities to ensure Air Force commands and personnel are meeting LOAC compliance requirements.    SAF/IG  also  develops  appropriate  policies  and  procedures  to  ensure  the  Air Force  Office  of  Special investigative responsibilities. (AFOSI)  meets Investigations its  unique 3.5.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air  Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ)  provides guidance to ensure Air Force contracting entities properly incorporate LOAC provisions into Air Force contracts where required by DoD policy. 3.6.  Organizations  responsible  for  personnel  with  unique  responsibilities  under  LOAC, including  the  Surgeon  General  (AF/SG),  the  Chaplain  Corps  (AF/HC),  and  the  Chief  of Security  Forces  (AF/A7S),  will  develop  appropriate  policies  and  procedures  to  ensure  they meet their respective responsibilities under the LOAC. 3.7.  The  Commander,  Air  Education  and  Training  Command,  and  the  Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy will include LOAC instruction in their respective military training and education programs where appropriate. 3.8.  All  commanders  shall  ensure  that  all  Air  Force  personnel  in  their  commands  receive LOAC training in accordance with  applicable Air Force  guidance and combatant  command reporting  instructions.    Commanders  will  ensure  all  command  policies,  procedures  and activities  are  consistent  with  the  LOAC  and  will  ensure  prompt  reporting  of  reportable incidents through appropriate channels.  Commanders will ensure a judge advocate reviews all command plans, policies, procedures and operations to ensure they comply with the U.S. legal obligations under domestic and international law including the LOAC. 4.  Minimum Training Requirements.  The Air Force will prevent LOAC violations through a mandatory training program by which Air Force personnel are trained in the principles and rules of LOAC needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities.  This LOAC training will meet the criteria for training required by the 1949 Geneva Conventions and the Hague Convention IV of 1907 and its annexes.  LOAC training will be conducted as part of the Air Force’s Expeditionary Skills Training program in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.   4  AFPD51-4   4 AUGUST 2011 5.  Reporting  and  Investigating  Suspected  LOAC  Violations.  All  Air  Force  personnel  who suspect  or  have  information  which  might  reasonably  be  viewed  as  a  violation  of  the  LOAC committed by or against U.S. personnel, enemy personnel or any other individual shall promptly report it to their immediate commander. 5.1.  If an immediate commander appears to be involved in the violation, Air Force personnel and those assigned to or accompanying the Air Force shall promptly report the information as a possible LOAC violation to the next higher command authority. 5.2.  In instances where it is unreasonable to report within the chain of command, Air Force personnel  shall  either  report  the  information  as  a  possible  LOAC  violation  to  the  servicing staff judge advocate (SJA), inspector general, the AFOSI or to a sister Service counterpart of one of these offices. 5.3.  Each commander that receives information about a reportable incident shall forward this report  promptly  through  command  channels  as  appropriate,  to  their  servicing  SJA  and,  if applicable, the appropriate investigating agency. 5.4.  Servicing SJAs shall notify AF/JAO of all reported incidents. 5.5.  Commanders  shall  ensure investigated.  Commanders shall forward investigations promptly through command channels and resolve misconduct  through  appropriate  and  timely  corrective  action,  including,  as  appropriate, prosecution  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice.    Commanders,  through  their  SJA, will forward a copy of completed investigations to AF/JAO. incidents  are  properly that  reportable Section B—Legal Reviews of Weapons and Cyber Capabilities 6.  All weapons and cyber capabilities developed, acquired or modified by the Air Force are required  to  have  a  legal  review  to  ensure  compliance  with  LOAC,  domestic  and international law prior to employment in military operations.  These weapons reviews shall be consistent with  the requirements outlined in DoDD 5000.1,  The Defense Acquisition System and DoDD 3000.3, Policy for Non-Lethal Weapons. 7.  Responsibilities.  The  following  responsibilities  and  authorities  are  established  for  legal reviews of weapons and cyber capabilities: 7.1.  The  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC),  in  coordination  with  AF/JA  as  appropriate,  shall accomplish a legal review of each weapon developed within a special access program. 7.2.  AF/JA  shall  accomplish  a  thorough  and  accurate  legal  review  of  all  other  Air  Force weapons. 7.3.  SAF/AQ shall ensure that all information required is available for AF/JA or SAF/GC to accomplish a legal review of each weapon. 7.4.  AF/A3/5 shall ensure that all information required is available for AF/JA or SAF/GC to accomplish a legal review of each weapon. 7.5.  All MAJCOM commanders, through their SJA, shall provide AF/JA or SAF/GC with all the information required to accomplish a thorough and accurate legal review of each weapon it intends to acquire. AFPD51-4  4 AUGUST 2011   5  7.6.  SAF/GC, in coordination with AF/JA as appropriate, shall accomplish a legal review of each cyber capability developed within a special access program.  AF/JA shall accomplish a thorough and accurate legal review of all other Air Force cyber capabilities. 7.7.  All  MAJCOM commanders, through their SJA, shall provide AF/JA or, in  the case of special  access  programs,  SAF/GC  with  all  the  information  required  to  accomplish  a  timely legal review of each cyber capability.  MICHAEL B. DONLEY Secretary of the Air Force   6  AFPD51-4   4 AUGUST 2011 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010 AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 DoD Directive 2311.01E, Law of War Program, May 9, 2006 DoD Directive 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003 DoD Directive 3000.3, Policy for Non-Lethal Weapons, July 9, 1996. CJCSI 5810.01D, Implementation of the DoD Law of War Program, version “D”, 30 April 2010 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 Abbreviations and Acronyms LOAC—Law of Armed Conflict MAJCOM—Major Command SJA—Staff Judge Advocate USAF—United States Air Force Terms Law  of  Armed  Conflict.—Also known as the Law of War, LOAC is the part of domestic and international  law  that  regulates  the  conduct  of  armed  hostilities.    LOAC  encompasses  all international  law  for  the  conduct  of  hostilities  binding  on  the  United  States  or  its  individual citizens,  including  treaties  and  international  agreements  to  which  the  United  States  is  a  party, domestic law implementing those treaties, and applicable customary international law. Reportable  Incident.—A  possible,  suspected,  or  alleged  LOAC  violation,  for  which  there  is credible information, or conduct during military operations other than war that would constitute a violation of the law of war if it occurred during armed conflict. Weapons.—Weapons  are  devices  designed  to  kill,  injure,  disable  or  temporarily  incapacitate people  or  destroy,  damage  or  temporarily  incapacitate  property  or  materiel.      Weapons  do  not include  devices  developed  and  used  for  training,  or  launch  platforms  to  include  aircraft  and intercontinental ballistic missiles. Cyber Capability.—For the purposes of this Directive, an Air Force cyber capability requiring a legal review is any device or software payload intended to disrupt, deny, degrade, negate, impair or destroy adversarial computer systems, data, activities or capabilities. Cyber capabilities do not include a device or software that is solely intended to provide access to an adversarial computer system for data exploitation. 