 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 40-2 12 JANUARY 2015 Aerospace Medicine RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS  (NON-NUCLEAR WEAPONS)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AFMSA/SG3PB  Supersedes:   AFPD 40-2, 15 March 2007 Certified by: AF/SG  (Lt Gen Thomas W. Travis) Pages: 6   This  publication  supersedes  AFPD  40-2,  15  Mar  2007,  and  implements  national  policies  and regulatory  requirements  of:  the  Atomic  Energy  Act  (AEA)  of  1954,  as  amended,  Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-438); Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58); Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 0-199, Energy; Title 49, CFR, Parts 0-177, Transportation. It also supports implementation of DOD Instruction 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program. This publication applies to the Air National Guard and Reserve. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records  Disposition Schedule (RDS). This directive establishes policy for the control of radioactive materials within the  possession  of  the  Air  Force,  including  those  radioactive  materials  regulated  by  the  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), but  excluding those used in  nuclear weapons or those that are otherwise exempted from regulation by the NRC by the Atomic Energy Act (AEA), as amended.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This revision incorporates minor changes to radioactive material management policy.   2  AFPD40-2  12 JANUARY 2015 1.  OVERVIEW: 1.1.  The  use  of  radioactive  materials  is  beneficial,  and  often  essential  to  success,  in medicine, research and development and operational activities. However, there are potential hazards associated with these materials that must be controlled to protect human  health and the environment. 1.2.  The Air Force will fully comply with all applicable federal regulations for the control of radioactive material. 1.3.  The Air Force will limit the use of radioactive materials as much as possible. 1.3.1.  Radioactive materials will only be used when justified. 1.3.2.  Radiation  exposures  to  workers  and  the  public  will  be  maintained  below  federal regulatory limits and as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). 1.3.3.  Radioactive materials will only be used on Air Force installations when properly authorized  by  an  appropriate  permit  or  license,  and  when  approved  by  the  installation commander. 1.4.  Only individuals qualified by appropriate training and experience will be allowed to use, supervise the use of, train others and oversee radiation safety programs for use of radioactive materials. 1.5.  The  Air  Force  will  have  a  formal  program  to  assess  compliance  with  this  policy, provisions  of  the  Air  Force  Master  Materials  License  (MML)  and  with  USAF  Radioactive Material Permits. 2.  RESPONSIBILITIES.  The following responsibilities and authorities are established: 2.1.  Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE). 2.1.1.  Specifically  responsible  for  providing  guidance,  direction  and  oversight  for  all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs, budgets  and  Air  Force  positions  regarding  federal  and  state  legislation  and  regulations related  to  radiation  safety  and  radioactive  materials  management.  This  includes  the planning,  programming,  implementation,  operations,  management  and  interagency-intergovernmental coordination for all Air Force programs, projects and activities subject to radiation safety and radioactive materials management requirements in law, regulation, international  agreements,  executive  orders,  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  directives, instructions and policy, Air Force directives, instructions and policy. 2.2.  Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) 2.2.1.  Will  provide  policy,  advocate  resources  for,  oversee  and  enforce  the  control  of radioactive materials in the US Air Force, under the auspices of the Air Force MML. 2.3.  The Air Force Radioisotope Committee (RIC). 2.3.1.  Managed under AF/SG. AFPD40-2  12 JANUARY 2015   3  2.3.2.  Functions as the Air Force radiation safety committee, administering the Air Force MML.  It  manages  the  Air  Force  use  of  radioactive  materials  by  Air  Force  personnel, approving or denying such use, and enforces compliance with the Air Force MML. 2.4.  The Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA). 2.4.1.  Inspects  unit  compliance  with  USAF  Radioactive  Material  Permits,  federal regulations, and other radiation protection issues as required by the RIC. 2.5.  Commanders of Air Force organizations using radioactive materials. 2.5.1.  Complies  with  requirements,  ensure  only  authorized  activities  are  conducted, establish  programs  to  ensure  activities  are  safely  performed,  and  provide  resources needed to comply with this policy. 2.6.  Individuals.  Individuals  are  responsible  for  effective  control  of  radioactive  materials by: 2.6.1.  Complying with radiation safety procedures, the license or permit, USAF or local instructions and federal regulations. 2.6.2.  Following  instructions  or  directives  of  the  commander,  their  supervisors  and  the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO). 2.6.3.  Informing  the  commander,  supervisor  or  RSO  about  conditions  believed  to  be unsafe,  non-compliant  or  believed  to  be  the  cause  or  potential  cause  of  a  radiological incident or mishap. 2.6.4.  Keeping exposures to radiation ALARA. 3.  GENERAL.  This  policy  applies to  all Air  Force  organizations and  employees who  acquire or possess radioactive materials subject to this regulation and to any agency or person (including contractors)  that  bring  radioactive  materials  onto  Air  Force  installations  or  use  radioactive materials  on  Air  Force  installations.  It  does  not  apply  to  radioactive  materials  transferred  from the Department of Energy (DOE) to the DoD as components of nuclear weapon systems, certain radioactive  components  of  weapons  systems,  nuclear  reactor  systems  components  and  fuel controlled  under  Section  91(a)  and  (b)  of  the  AEA,  as  amended,  and  DOE  activities  related  to SAFE HAVEN requirements.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD40-2  12 JANUARY 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Code of Federal Regulations Title 10: Energy, Parts 0-199 Title 49: Transportation, Parts 0-177 DoD Publications DoD Instruction 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program, 15 Dec 2009 Departmental Publications AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008 Prescribed Forms None. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AEA—Atomic Energy Act AF—Air Force AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ALARA—As low as reasonably achievable CFR—Code of Federal Regulations DoD—Department of Defense DOE—Department of Energy HQ—Head QuartersMML – Master Materials License NARM—Naturally Occurring and Accelerator Produced Radioactive Material NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility RAM—Radioactive Material RDS—Records Disposition Schedule AFPD40-2  12 JANUARY 2015   5  RIC—Radioisotope Committee RSO—Radiation Safety Officer SG—Surgeon General SNM—Special Nuclear Material USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine Terms Air Force Installation. Locations including AF bases, AF leased space, city—bases, and AF operations on a DoD or coalition base. Air Force Master Materials License (MML)—. The single NRC license issued to the US Air Force.  The  MML  delegates  to  the  US  Air  Force  Radioisotope  Committee  (RIC)  regulatory authority  over  all  byproduct,  source,  and  limited  quantities  of  special  nuclear  material  used  by the Air Force. As Low As Reasonably  Achievable (ALARA).—The principle that personnel exposures must be  maintained  as  low  as  possible  consistent  with  existing  technology,  cost,  and  operational requirements. Byproduct  Material.  As  defined  in  the  Atomic  Energy  Act  and  amended  in  the  Energy Policy  Act  of  2005  includes:  any  radioactive  material  (except  special  nuclear  material) yielded  in  or  made  radioactive  by  exposure  to  the  radiation  incident  to  the  process  of producing or utilizing special nuclear material; (A) any discrete source of radium—226 that is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005 for use for  a  commercial,  medical,  or  research  activity;  or  (B)  any  material  that  -  (i)  has  been  made radioactive  by  use  of  a  particle  accelerator;  and  (ii)  is  produced,  extracted,  or  converted  after extraction,  before,  on,  or  after  August  8,  2005  for  use  for  a  commercial,  medical,  or  research activity;  and  any  discrete  source  of  naturally  occurring  radioactive  material,  other  than  source material,  that:  (1)  the  NRC,  in  consultation  with  the  Administrator  of  the  Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of any other appropriate Federal agency, determines would pose a threat similar to the threat posed by  a discrete source of radium-226 to  the public  health and safety  or the  common defense  and security;  and (2) before,  on, or  after Aug. 8, 2005 is  extracted or converted after  extraction for use in a commercial, medical, or research activity. Incident. For purpose of this directive, an incident is any event involving a nuclear reactor, radioisotope power system, or radioactive material that is not defined as a mishap, or that may result in adverse public reaction. This includes weather—induced events, attacks against sensitive information or spontaneous/unforeseen failures of equipment or material. License—.  NRC  or  Agreement  State  written  authorization  to  receive,  possess,  use,  or  transfer Byproduct, Source, or Special Nuclear Material. Mishap.  For  purposes  of  this  directive,  a  mishap  is  defined  in  AFI  91—202. It is an event involving human acts of omission or commission involving a nuclear reactor, radioisotope power system,  or  radioactive  material  resulting  in  any  of  the  following:  (A)  A  loss  of  control  of radioactive  material  that  presents  a  hazard  to  life,  health,  or  property.  This  includes  loss  of control that may result in any person in an unrestricted area exceeding the limits for exposure to   6  AFPD40-2  12 JANUARY 2015 ionizing radiation as stated in Title 10, CFR, Part 20, Standards for Protection Against Radiation. (B)  Any  unexpected  event  involving  radioactive  materials  or  radiation  exposure  that  is  serious enough  to  warrant  the  interest  or  action  of  officials  or  agencies  outside  the  Air  Force.  This category includes any event: having domestic or international implications, those that may cause inquiries  by  the  public  or  press,  and  those  requiring  immediate  notification  to  the  NRC  under Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 20, Standards for Protection Against Radiation. Naturally  Occurring  and  Accelerator  Produced  Radioactive  Material (NARM). Radioactive material that occurs in nature, such as radium—226, or is produced by a particle accelerator and that is not otherwise defined as byproduct, source, or special nuclear material. Permit.—Shortened  term  for  US  Air  Force,  US  Navy  or  Veterans  Administration  Radioactive Material Permit. See also USAF Radioactive Material Permit. Radiation Safety Officer (RSO).—An individual with specific education, military training, and professional experience in radiation protection practice designated by a commander or the RIC to manage radiation safety programs. The term "Radiation Safety Officer" is a functional title and does not denote a commissioned status or job classification in the Air Force. Radioactive  Material.  Material  whose  nuclei,  because  of  their  unstable  nature,  decay  by emission  of  ionizing  radiation.  The  radiation  emitted  may  be  alpha  or  beta  particles, gamma or X—rays, or neutrons. SAFE  HAVEN.  Temporary  storage  and  protection  provided for  DOE  classified  shipment transporters  at  DOD  facilities  to  ensure  safety  and  security  of  nuclear  material  or  non—nuclear classified material. —One  “A”  and  “B”  (91[a]  and  91[b])  Material.  Radioactive  material  exempted  from  NRC licensing controls under § 91(a) and § 91(b) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, in the interest of national defense. Source  Material.  Uranium  or  thorium  or  any  combination  thereof  in  any  physical  or chemical  form;  or  ores  that  have,  by  weight,  one—twentieth  of  1  percent  (0.05  percent)  or more of uranium, thorium, or any combination thereof. Source material does not include special nuclear material. Special Nuclear Material (SNM). Plutonium, uranium—233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, and any other material that the NRC determines to be SNM. SNM does not include source material. US Air Force Radioactive Material (RAM) Permit—. Written authorization from the US Air Force RIC for Air Force organizations to receive, possess, distribute, use, transfer, or dispose of  radioactive materials. US Air Force Radioisotope Committee (RIC).—A committee established in accordance with, and the named licensee on, the Air Force MML to coordinate the administrative and regulatory aspects of licensing, possessing, distributing, using, transferring, transporting and disposing of all radioactive  material  in  the  Air  Force  except  that  transferred  from  DOE  to  the  DoD  in  nuclear weapon  systems,  certain  radioactive  components  of  weapons  systems  and  nuclear  reactor systems, components and fuel controlled under Section 91(a) and (b) of the AEA.  