BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE Template modified:27 May 1997 14:30 reprisal.  Formal employee classification appeals  will be timely processed by the servicing Civilian Per-sonnel Flight (CPF) in compliance with the requirements of  appellate authorities at DOD and OPM.CPFs will advertise the procedures for filing a classification appeal at least annually.5. The Air Force classification program will facilitate the proper placement of employees through devel-opment and assignment of  occupational skill codes to individual positions.6. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:6.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations and Envi-ronment (SAF/MI) is responsible for civilian personnel policy matters as described in Air Force Pol-icy Directive 90-1, Strategic Planning and Policy Formulation, paragraph 1.5.2.  SAF/MI approval isrequired before this document is changed, reissued or rescinded.6.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ USAF/DP)  develops, coordinates, and executes per-sonnel policy and approves essential procedural guidance for the management of the Position Man-agement and Classification Program.6.3. Managers and supervisors are solely responsible for the assignment of duties and responsibilitiesto civilian positions consistent with the policies established by this directive and as delegated by theorganization commander, ensuring PDs and CDs are accurate, and providing copies of PDs/CDs totheir subordinates.6.4. The CPF providing classification service is solely responsible for the proper classification ofpositions other than those specified in 6.5. and 6.6. below and exercises this responsibility on behalfof Commanders with appointing authority.6.5. Positions responsible for exercising appointing authority on behalf of Commanders, includingCivilian Personnel Officers and Major Command Directors of Civilian Personnel, are centrally classi-fied by HQ USAF/DPC.6.6. Air Reserve Technician (ART) positions are centrally classified by HQ AFRES/DPC.6.7. Managers and supervisors and the servicing CPF providing classification service are jointlyresponsible for the adequacy of PDs/CDs.6.8. Commanders or organization directors will resolve disagreements between management and theCPF pertaining to the accuracy of PDs/CDs.6.9. Major Command (MAJCOM) Directors of Civilian Personnel will resolve disagreementsbetween managers and the servicing CPF pertaining to the proper classification of positions on behalfof Commanders with appointing authority.  Classification disputes from tenant organizations will beresolved by the CPF’s parent MAJCOM after consideration of comments by the tenant’s MAJCOM.Classification decisions made by MAJCOMs under these circumstances are binding on the subordi-nate installation.7. See Attachment 1  for measures of compliance.8. See Attachment 2  for related publications.29. Forms Prescribed:   AF Form 1378, Civilian Personnel Position Description, Mar 79 and AF  Form1003,  Air Force Core Personnel Document (Automated), Apr 90.EUGENE E. HABIGER,  Lt General, USAFDCS/Personnel3Attachment 1MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICYA1.1. Compliance with position management and classification policy will be measured by the ratio ofsupervisory employees to non-supervisory employees and the percentage of high grade positions in theworkforce.  Measurement of position management policy will be done by HQ USAF through informationin the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).A1.1.1. Supervisory ratio is the ratio of civilian employees assigned to positions coded with a super-visory level code of 1, 2, or 3 in DCPDS to all other civilian employees Figure A1.2.  High grademanagment will be measured by the  percentage of full-time, permanent employees occupying posi-tions in grade GS-14 and higher, including pay equivalents, to the authorized civilian workforce Fig-ure A1.1.Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Supervisory Ratio4Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of High Grade Management5Attachment 2GLOSSARY OF REFERENCESReferencesTitle 5, United States Code:Chapter 51, Classification (Section 5101 through 5115), Current EditionChapter 53, Pay Rates and Systems (Section 5346), Current Edition5 CFR Part 511Job Grading System for Trades and Labor OccupationsPosition Classification Standards for Positions under the General ScheduleAFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirement6