 BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-10 23 JANUARY 2015 Operations Support MODELING AND SIMULATION  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:   AF/A3OL  Supersedes: AFPD 16-10, 10 Mar 2006 Certified by: AF/A3  (Lt Gen Burton M. Field) Pages: 6   This  Directive  establishes  policy  for  Air  Force  Modeling  and  Simulation  (M&S).    This publication reflects policy from Department of Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD) 5000.59, DoD M&S  Management,  and  reflects  guidance  from  DoD  Instruction  (DoDI)  5000.61,  DoD  M&S Verification,  Validation,  and  Accreditation  (VV&A)  and  DoDI  5000.70,  Management  of  DoD M&S  Activities  and  applies  to  all  AF  organizations  including  the  Air  National  Guard  and  Air Force Reserve Command. Send  all  recommendations  for  changes  or  comments  to  M&S/Live,  Virtual  and  Constructive (LVC)    Division  (AF/A3OL)  workflow  (usaf.pentagon.af-a3.mbx.a3ol-workflow@mail.mil) or  1480  AF  Pentagon,  Washington,  DC  20330-1480,  through  appropriate  channels  using  AF Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  (RDS)  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management  System  (AFRIMS),  or  any  updated  statement  provided  by  the  AF  Records Management office. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  This directive reflects a complete reorganization of AF M&S. 1.  Overview:  Models and Simulations are representations of reality that allow Airmen to better understand  and  interact  with  their  environment.    M&S  takes  a  variety  of  forms  to  include: equations,  computer  programs,  scaled  physical  representations,  simulators  and  more.    M&S  is   2  AFPD16-10  23 JANUARY 2015 enhanced  by  various  elements  including;  computer  hardware  and  operating  systems,  networks, skilled  personnel,  techniques,  processes,  and  services.    To  this  end,  M&S  improves  decision support for acquisition and analysis and enhances warfighting training and readiness.  While an organization's  internally  designed/modified  M&S  and  data  used  for  issues  within  units,  at  or below Wing level, should adhere to best practices, they are not subject to this policy. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  The  AF  must  build,  enhance  and  expand  M&S  capabilities  to  acquire,  improve  and sustain  warfighting  capabilities  and  provide  decision  quality  information.    The  AF  shall identify  M&S  best  practices  and  promote  appropriate  standards  and  protocols  to  facilitate interoperability and suitable use/reuse across AF Organizations. 2.2.  The AF will develop and use M&S capabilities to provide sufficiently realistic training, mission  rehearsal  and  test  validation  with  the  goal  of  providing  appropriate  capacity, capability, concurrency, connectivity, and fidelity. 2.2.1.  Environments.    The  AF  will  establish  persistent,  agile,  trustworthy,  robust, manageable,  organized  and integrated  Live,  Virtual,  and  Constructive  (LVC) environments  and  ensure  these  environments  are  of  sufficient  fidelity  to  accurately support  and  augment  LVC  uses  across  the  AF  and  any  interactions  with  Joint, Interagency  or  Coalition  systems.    The  AF  is  designated  as  the  Air  and  Space  Natural Environment  M&S  Executive  Agent  (ASNE  MSEA),  reference  DoDD  5101.1,  DoD Executive  Agent,  and  DoDD  5000.59,  DoD  Modeling  and  Simulation  (M&S) Management. 2.2.2.  Architectures.    The  AF  shall  establish  integrated,  interoperable,  and  effective M&S  architectures  and  strive  to  make  these  consistent  with  Joint,  Interagency  and Coalition systems. 2.3.  The  AF  will  develop  and  use  Decision  Support  M&S  capabilities,  at  the  appropriate level of fidelity, to examine problems and provide decision-makers with usable information to reduce uncertainty associated with decisions. 2.4.  Within  the context of available resources/requirements, the AF shall develop,  manage, and provide AF representative data, to support DoD M&S databases. 2.5.  Within the context of DoD available resources/requirements, the AF shall develop and maintain metadata, as appropriate, to be used throughout the DoD community. 2.6.  The AF will establish Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A) instructions relevant to M&S usage. 3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 3.1.  AF  M&S  is  aligned  under  three  pillars:  (1)  Live,  Virtual,  and  Constructive  for Operational  Training  (LVC-OT)  led  by  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Operations  (AF/A3),  (2) Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management  (ILCM)  led  by  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for Acquisition  (SAF/AQ),  and  (3)  Decision  Support  led  by  Director,  Studies  &  Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9). Where differences exist within the pillars, pillar leads are responsible for developing necessary guidance, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with this policy. AFPD16-10  23 JANUARY 2015   3  3.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3): 3.2.1.  Shall,  in  coordination  with  SAF/AQ  and  AF/A9,  write  and  maintain  overarching AF M&S policy and guidance and coordinate DoD and Joint Staff M&S issuances as lead AF M&S policy/guidance coordinator. 3.2.2.  Develops  LVC-OT Policy, acts as the Lead Integrator for LVC and serves as the lead  for  centrally  managed  oversight  of  LVC  efforts  across  Major  Commands (MAJCOM). 3.2.3.  Collaborates  with  other  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF)  organizations  and MAJCOMs,  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  (OSD),  Joint  Staff,  and  other  DoD components/organizations,  along  with  industry  and  academia,  to  advocate,  implement, and  enforce  LVC  standards  and  practices  and  ensure  simulation  capabilities  are  shared, classification issues are decided, and general issues with M&S for Operational Training are resolved in a cost effective manner. 3.2.4.  The Director of Weather (AF/A3W), under the authority, direction and control of the AF/A3, is designated as the ASNE MSEA on behalf of the Air Force. 3.3.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ): 3.3.1.  Develops  policy  and  provides  guidance  and  oversight  for  Air  Force  M&S  policy and  implementation  for  ILCM  processes  IAW  AFPD  63-1/20-1,  Integrated  Life  Cycle Management  and  Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  63-101/20-101,  Integrated  Life  Cycle Management. 3.3.2.  Is responsible for acquisition lifecycle management resources, policy and guidance affecting  development  of  M&S  capabilities  falling  under  the  LVC-OT  and  Decision Support pillars. 3.4.  Director, Studies, Analyses & Assessments (AF/A9): 3.4.1.  Shall  establish  guidance  and  governance  for  Decision  Support  tools  and methodologies. 3.4.2.  Serves  as  the  AF  representative  to  the  OSD  M&S  Steering  Committee  (SC)  and works  with  the  Office  of  the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Acquisition,  Technology, and Logistics (OUSD (AT&L)) M&S Coordination Office. 3.5.  HAF Staff, MAJCOMs, Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) shall identify and develop functional M&S requirements and capabilities within their core functional areas, missions, and assigned units.  MAJCOM and DRU Commanders retain their authority to prioritize requirements and manage their resources.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force   4  AFPD16-10  23 JANUARY 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD 5000.59, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Management, 8 August 2007 DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent, 3 September 2002 DoDI 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A), 9 December 2009 DoDI 5000.70, Management of DoD Modeling and Simulation Activities, 10 May 2012, Change 1, 19 March 2014 AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012 AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Department of Defense Discovery Metadata Specification (DDMS), http://metadata.ces.mil/dse/irs/DDMS/ DoD M&S Glossary (http://www.msco.mil/MSGlossary.html) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS), https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System ASNE—Air and Space Natural Environment C2—Command and Control DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency HAF—Headquarters Air Force AFPD16-10  23 JANUARY 2015   5  ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management LVC—Live, Virtual and Constructive LVC—OT – Live, Virtual and Constructive-Operational Training M&S—Modeling and Simulation MAJCOM—Major Command MSEA—Modeling and Simulation Executive Agent OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense OUSD  (AT&L)—Office  of  the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  for  Acquisition,  Technology,  and Logistics RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SC—Steering Committee VV&A—Verification, Validation, and Accreditation Terms in in this  document  and  not  defined The  following  terms  and  their  definitions  are  for  the  purposes  of  this  document.    Where  no citation  appears,  the  term  has  been  derived  from  several  sources  or  from  common  usage.  Terms  contained the  DoD  M&S  Glossary specified  below.—Acquisition  –  The (http://www.msco.mil/MSGlossary.html)  are conceptualization, initiation, design, development, test, contracting, production, deployment, and disposal  of  a  directed  and  funded  effort  that  provides  a  new,  improved,  or  continued  materiel, weapon, information system, logistics support, or service capability in response to an approved need. (AFPAM 63-128) Decision  Support— The process of gathering, generating, filtering, optimizing, and organizing mined information to support leadership decision making. Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management  (ILCM)—  The  seamless  governance,  transparency,  and integration of all aspects of infrastructure, resource management, and business systems necessary for successful development, acquisition, test and evaluation, fielding, sustainment, and disposal of systems, subsystems, end items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs. Live, Virtual, and Constructive— Operational Training (LVC-OT) Simulation - A mixture of  live  operations,  virtual  simulation,  and  constructive  modeling  to  provide  training,  test  and mission rehearsal. Modeling  &  Simulation  (M&S)—  The  use  of  models,  including  emulators,  prototypes, simulators,  and  stimulators,  either  statically  or  over  time  to  develop  data  for  the  purposes  of decision  support  for  acquisition  and  analysis  or  to  enhance  training  and  increase  warfighter readiness.  The terms “modeling” and “simulation” are often used interchangeably.  Note: unless otherwise specified in this or subordinate publications, this AF definition is  used as it includes broader aspects of M&S than the DoD definition such as LVC-OT and mission rehearsal.   6  AFPD16-10  23 JANUARY 2015 Requirement—  An  established  need  justifying  the  timely  allocation  of  resources  to  achieve  a capability to accomplish approved military objectives, missions, or tasks. Standard—  A  rule,  principle,  or  measurement  established  by  authority,  custom,  or  general consent as a representation or example. Trustworthy— Deserving of confidence; consistent, dependable or reliable.  