BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 11-41 SEPTEMBER 2004Flying OperationsAVIATION SERVICENOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ USAF/XOOT  (Mr. Kyle W. Rensler) Supersedes AFPD 11-4, 30 November 1993 Certified by: HQ USAF/XO(Lt Gen Ronald E. Keys)Pages: 4Distribution: FThis directive provides basic policy applicable to aviation service for active and reserve component units.It specifies responsibilities, defines key terms, and notes policy interfaces. Ensure that records created asa result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1, Infor-mation Management, and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance withthe Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil. The flying force is the heart of Air Force’s combat capability. Sustaining the preeminence of this forcerequires rigorous training and professional standards. Aviation service programs must ensure aircrewmembers, and operational support fliers obtain and maintain the qualification and proficiency needed toperform their missions. Only highly qualified members are eligible to enter this force and to remain qual-ified for aviation duty. SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates definitions of aircrew and operational support fliers, deletes parachutist references,deletes the term “Mission Crew,” and provides for cadet participation in US Air Force Academy flyingprograms. The format has been updated to include a glossary of references and supporting information.The former Attachment 1, “Measuring and Displaying Compliance with Policy,” is now covered inAFPD 10-2, Readiness.  1.  General. The Air Force will maintain sufficient qualified flying personnel to accomplish its mission.Every level of flying training must contribute to establishing and maintaining a force of unequaled qual-ity. 1.1.  Initial entry training screens and qualifies candidates for the high standards of flying duty. 2AFPD11-4   1 SEPTEMBER 20041.2.  Mission qualification and continuation training sustain the aircrew readiness levels required toaccomplish the mission. 2.  Responsibilities.  2.1.  The Air Force Director of Operations and Training (HQ USAF/XOO) establishes and overseesthe Air Force’s flying programs. 2.2.  Commanders of Major Commands provide subordinate units the guidance, criteria, and supervi-sion required to accomplish training requirements. 2.3.  Subordinate commanders ensure assigned personnel comply with published policies and proce-dures. 2.4.  Individual aircrew members safely and effectively use the flying resources available to them.Training for flying duties is voluntary, but once trained, individuals must treat these duties as militaryrequirements. 3.  Terms  3.1.  Aircrew. The total complement of rated (pilots, navigators, air battle managers, and flight sur-geons), career enlisted aviators (1AXXX Air Force Specialty Codes), and nonrated aircrew (K-, Q-, orX-prefixed Air Force Specialty Code) personnel responsible for the safe ground and flight operationof the aircraft and onboard systems, or for airborne duties essential to accomplishment of the aircraft’smission. Includes members in initial formal training for immediate assignment to an authorized oper-ational flying position. Individuals must be on aeronautical orders and assigned to an authorized posi-tion according to AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, or nonrated aircrew not in anaircraft’s basic crew complement, but required for the mission. Aircrew members perform their prin-cipal duties inflight and their presence is required for the aircraft to accomplish its primary tasked mis-sion. Duties must be essential to operating the aircraft or mission systems and equipment used forcompleting a mission, or other duties essential to the aircraft’s mission. 3.2.  US Air Force Academy (USAFA)/Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC)cadets enrolled in approved USAFA flying programs are accorded aircrew status while actively par-ticipating in such programs.  Cadets will be placed on aeronautical orders authorizing USAFA Air-manship Program flying status and will not be added in the operational ARMS database.  An AviationService Code (ASC) will not be assigned and an Aviation Service Date (ASD) will not be established.Neither flying incentive pay nor flying duty credit are authorized.  3.3.  Operational Support Flier. An individual whose primary, full-time duty does not require fly-ing. The Air Force may require these individuals to fly on an occasional basis to perform a specific,essential inflight duty that cannot be performed by an assigned aircrew member. Duties may include,but are not limited to inflight test, operation, or inflight maintenance of specific aircraft systems orinstalled equipment. Operational support fliers must be placed on aeronautical orders and completeprescribed flying hour requirements in order for them to receive non-crew hazardous duty pay; autho-rized man-months are required prior to issuance of aeronautical orders. 4.  Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS). ARMS is the designated Air Force managementsystem for aviation actions. All active and inactive aircrew members will be entered into ARMS. ARMSwill be used to manage flying qualification, operational training, and entitlements to flying incentive pay.AFPD11-4   1 SEPTEMBER 20043An operational ARMS database will not be used to enter or track contract fliers or USAFA/AFROTCcadets. An alternative training database may be employed. 5.  Publications Interface. See Attachment 1 for publications that interface with this policy directive. JAMES G. ROCHE Secretary of the Air Force 4AFPD11-4   1 SEPTEMBER 2004GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1     References and Interfacing PublicationsAFPD 10-2, Readiness AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures AFPD 36-22, Military Training AFPD 37-1, Information Management AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records Abbreviations and Acronyms ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System ASC—Aviation Service Code ASD—Aviation Service Date 