BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-317 MAY 2006OperationsAIR RESERVE COMPONENT FORCESNOTICE:This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.OPR: HQ USAF/A3/5GH  (Col Eric D. Sillery) Supersedes AFPD10-3, 2 May 1994 Certified by: HQ USAF/A3/5(Lt Gen Carroll H. Chandler)Pages: 6Distribution: FWithin the United States Air Force, Total Force is more than a policy; it is an operational imperative. Vir-tually no mission in the Air Force today can be fully successful without the synergistic teamwork of theRegular Air Force (RegAF), Air National Guard (ANG), and the Air Force Reserve (AFR). This AFPDimplements the SecDef ‘s Total Force policy first established in August, 1973, as well as Chapters 1003,1005, 1007 and 1211 of Title 10, United States Code, and Title 32, United States Code. Policy in thisdirective is implemented by AFI 10-301, Responsibilities for Air Reserve Component Forces. This direc-tive applies to all Air Force personnel including AFR and ANG. Note: For purposes of this publication, RegAF is not inclusive of retired members. Also, this publicationdeals only with the military components (RegAF, ANG and AFR) of the Total Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained inaccordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the AirForce Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/ SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision updates terminology to properly reflect the Air Force Reserve as a major command, adds theAir Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC) and the Readiness Management Group (RMG) as organizationsrequiring coordination for mobilization of individual mobilization augmentees (IMAs), and highlights therole of Total Force Integration concepts in the structuring of Air Force roles and missions. 1.  By definition (10 USC 8062(d)), the Air Force consists of the Regular Air Force, the Air NationalGuard (ANGUS) of the United States, the Air National Guard while in the service of the United States,and the Air Force Reserve. The AFR and the ANG are referred to as the Air Reserve Components orARC, and together with the regular component create a Total Force that provides air, space and cyberpower for the joint warfighter through the entire continuum from peacetime/rotational operations throughwartime operations. 2AFPD10-3   17 MAY 2006Under the Total Force Policy established by the Department of Defense (DoD) in 1973, both regular andreserve assets are considered as parts of a single United States military resource. All aspects of regular andreserve forces must be considered when determining an appropriate force mix. Significant factors includecontribution of forces to national security, availability of forces in view of time, statutory or regulatoryconstraints, and the cost to equip and maintain forces. Considerations unique to ANG units include theirdual state and Federal (Title 10) missions. ARC forces will be staffed and trained to meet the same train-ing standards and readiness levels as Regular Component forces, and supplied with the same equipmenton an equal priority. Equipment may not be withdrawn, diverted, or reassigned to the regular componentfor other commitments, or for the Security Assistance Program, without the advance written approval ofthe Secretary of Defense (SecDef) or Deputy Secretary of Defense. 1.1.  Reserve force requirements will be included in Air Force planning to ensure resources are madeavailable to staff, equip, upgrade, train, and evaluate ARC units and individuals as well as RegAFunits and individuals. 1.2.  Within the Department of the Air Force, the regular component will implement Total Force pol-icy by including ARC forces in deliberate and crisis action planning and employment actions. 1.3.  The ANG and AFRC will prepare to meet their wartime requirements as members of the TotalForce. Where appropriate, they will perform peacetime missions as an adjunct to training for wartimemissions and as directed in cases of support to civil authorities during disaster responses. To ensureresponsiveness and combat readiness, ARC forces will be continuously evaluated, modernized andtrained as a critical element of the Total Force that can be seamlessly employed alongside regularcomponent counterparts. 1.4.  When not mobilized, ARC forces complement the regular component through a system of volun-teerism. This volunteerism supports Total Force policy and is a force multiplier for meeting short-termand rotational operational requirements. Major contingencies requiring a large amount of ARC sup-port may require a formal declaration authorizing some level of mobilization. 1.5.  ARC personnel policies will be consistent with those established by the Secretary of the AirForce and Headquarters US Air Force (HQ USAF). The Director of ANG is responsible for theadministration of personnel and policies governing the ANG, and the Commander, Air Force ReserveCommand is responsible for the personnel and policies governing the AFR. 2.  The Total Force Integration concept is utilized in reshaping Air Force roles and missions to effectivelymeet evolving national security goals. To this end, regular component and ARC units may be integrated inan expanded variety of the proven associate constructs, to include Classic Associate, Active Associate(and a variant on Active Associate referred to as Community Basing), ARC Associate, Integrated Associ-ate or Fully Integrated Associate (refer to Glossary for definitions). Conversely, stand-alone ARC unitsmay still be organized to take advantage of state or regional demographics, and often will not be locatedat major, multi-squadron bases as is normally the case with regular component resources. These units aretermed “unit equipped”, and provide the additional benefit of implementing a strong relationship with thecivilian community, which helps build public support for the Air Force as a whole. 3.  In situations where mobilization is required, units shall be mobilized based on Unit Type Code (UTC)capability assigned against the unit and the Combatant Commander’s (CCDR) requirements. When com-plete units are required, the mobilization requests should include reserve command and administrativeAFPD10-3   17 MAY 20063personnel as well. ARC forces will be given equitable opportunity to fill command roles during contin-gency operations. 4.  The following responsibilities and authorities are established: 4.1.  Command jurisdiction for non-mobilized ANG units is vested in the governor of the state, com-monwealth, or territory, or in the President in the case of the District of Columbia. Communications toand within the National Guard Bureau (NGB) on matters pertaining to ANG units will be coordinatedthrough the Director of ANG. 4.2.  Program Action Directive (PAD) 97-09, directed the reassignment of all forces of the Air ForceReserve, to include IMA’s, except those assigned to USSOCOM, to Air Force Reserve Command.Thus, Administrative Control (ADCON) of non-mobilized Air Force Reserve personnel (includingIMAs) is exercised through the Commander, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) who is, in turn,responsible to the Chief of Staff, USAF. 4.3.  Per AFDD 2, when ARC unit forces are mobilized, Operational Control (OPCON) of thoseforces transfers in accordance with SecDef orders. The Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAF-FOR) receives specified ADCON over all attached forces. Short of full mobilization, ADCON (otherthan specified ADCON) will remain with AFRC or ANG, as appropriate, unless a specific agreementis made to integrate the ARC and regular components. 4.4.  Mobilization manpower sourcing from the ARC will be determined by the gaining MAJCOM inconcert with HQ USAF and the ARC. Mobilization of IMAs will be coordinated with RMG via HQAFRC. 4.5.  The Director, NGB and AFRC/CC will develop and justify their programs and submit them to theAir Force Corporate Structure for inclusion in the Air Force budget. 5.  In some cases, policy directives and instructions will not be applicable to ARC units in nonmobilizedstatus. Applicability to the ARC is determined in conjunction with the National Guard Bureau and AF/RE. 30 6.  See Attachment 1 for the terms used in this policy. Michael W. Wynne Secretary of the Air Force 4AFPD10-3   17 MAY 2006Attachment 1   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References AFDD 2, Organization and Employment of Aerospace Power AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces AFI 36-2629, Individual Mobilization Augmentee Management AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records (soon to be renumbered as AFMAN 33-363) JP 01-2, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms Title 10, United States Code Title 32, United States Code Program Action Directive (PAD) 97-09, dated 22 Sep 97 Abbreviations and Acronyms ADCON—Administrative Control AFR—Air Force Reserve AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command ANG—Air National Guard ARC—Air Reserve Components ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center CCDR—Combatant Commander COMAFFOR—Commander of Air Force Forces IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee MAJCOM—Major Command OPCON—Operational Control RegAF—Regular Air Force RMG—Readiness Management Group UTC—Unit Type Code Terms Activation—The process of placing members of the selected reserve on active duty. Activation includesall forms of mobilization and active duty other than for training, including full mobilization (10 U.S.C. §12301(a)), partial mobilization (10 U.S.C. § 12302), and the Presidential Reserve Call-Up (10 U.S.C. §12304) as well as consensual, or voluntary service under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d), generally referred to asvolunteerism. The term nonmobilized is understood to be the opposite of activated; i.e., peacetime duty orAFPD10-3   17 MAY 20065training in the form of inactive duty for training, annual tours, additional flying training periods orproficiency training, and school tours. Active Associate Unit—An integration model where a reserve component unit has principalresponsibility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more regular component units.The ARC and regular component units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command.Varying degrees of functional integration are based on memoranda of understanding. Administrative Control—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations inrespect to administration and support, including organization of Service forces, control of resources andequipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness, mobilization,demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the subordinateor other organizations. Also called ADCON. [JP 1-02] ARC Associate Unit—An integration model where two or more ARC units integrate with one retainingprincipal responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which are shared by all. Each unit retainsseparate organizational structures and chains of commands. Varying degrees of functional integration arebased on memoranda of understanding. Classic Associate Unit—An integration model where a regular component unit retains principalresponsibility for a weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more reserve component units.Regular and ARC units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command. Varying degreesof functional integration are based on memoranda of understanding. Command—The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over subordinatesby virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for effectively usingavailable resources and for planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, andcontrolling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also includes responsibility forhealth, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel. [JP 1-02] Combatant Commander—A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant commandsestablished by the President. [JP 1-02] Community Basing—A variation on the Active Associate model where regular component forces aregarrisoned at an ARC unit location. Support functions traditionally provided on a full service installation(housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc) are instead available in the local community. Full Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by Congress and thePresident to mobilize all Reserve Component units in the existing approved force structure, as well as allindividual reservists, retired military personnel, and the resources needed for their support to meet therequirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to the national security. [JP1-02] Fully Integrated Unit—An integration model where members from different components comprise asingle organization, falling under the same chain of command. Gaining Command—The major command, field operating agency, or other organization to which unitsor individuals are assigned upon mobilization. Integrated Associate Unit—An integration model where members of two or more components belong toone unit with administrative control and support provided by the respective components via detachments. Mobilization—The process by which the Armed Forces or part of them are brought to a state of readiness6AFPD10-3   17 MAY 2006for war or other national emergency. This includes activating all or part of the Reserve Components, aswell as assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel. [JP 1-02] Nonmobilized—See Activation. Operational Control—The authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate forcesinvolving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, andgiving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Operational control includesauthoritative direction over all aspects of military operations and joint training necessary to accomplishmissions assigned to the command. Operational control should be exercised through the commanders ofsubordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint forcecommanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Operational control normallyprovides full authority to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander inoperational control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of itself,include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization,or unit training. Also called OPCON. [JP 1-02] Partial Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by Congress (up tofull mobilization) or by the President (not more than 1,000,000 for not more than 24 consecutive months)to mobilize Ready Reserve Component units, individual reservists, and the resources needed for theirsupport to meet the requirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to thenational security. [JP 1-02] Readiness Management Group—An organization established by AFRC to provide readiness oversightof all Individual Mobilization Augmentees Regular Air Force—The component of the Air Force that consists of persons whose continuous serviceon active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired members of the Regular AirForce. [10 USC 8075] Selected Reserve—Those units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated by their respectiveServices and approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as so essential to initial wartime missions that theyhave priority over all other Reserves. All Selected Reservists are in an active status. The Selected Reservealso includes persons performing initial active duty for training. [JP 1-02] Selective Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by Congress and/or the President to mobilize Reserve Component units, Individual Ready Reservists, and the resourcesneeded for their support to meet the requirements of a domestic emergency that is not the result of anenemy attack. [JP 1-02] Short of Full Mobilization—Includes partial mobilization, Presidential Reserve Call-up, andvolunteerism. Specified ADCON—Exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations with respect to certainelements of administration or support, including accomplishment of assigned tasks for operationalmissions; support of operational and exercise plans; organization, training, equipping, and sustainingforces for in-theater missions; establishment of force protection requirements; and discipline. Exercisedby Commander holding OPCON over attached forces. Unit Type Code—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five characters thatuniquely identify a “type unit”. [JP 1-02] 