BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-1025 OCTOBER 2007OperationsJOINT USE OF MILITARY AND CIVILIANFLYING FACILITIESACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-ACSupersedes AFPD10-10, 1 September 1995Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O  (Brig Gen MarkeGibson)Pages: 6This policy directive implements Title 49, United States Code Sections, 44502, 47103 and 47107.  Itapplies to all United States Air Force (USAF), Air National Guard (ANG) and United States Air ForceReserve (USAFR) installations.  It also applies when civil aircraft use Air Force ramps at civil airportshosting USAF, ANG and USAFR units.  This policy directive addresses all standard situations.  Those notaddressed will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  Ensure all records created as a result of processesprescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert toAFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force RecordsDisposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.”  Send all recommendations forchanges or comments to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommenda-tion for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs from the field through the appropriate functional chain.SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  This version super-sedes all previous versions of AFPD 10-10.  This revision expands the scope of this directive to cover awider variety of military and civil joint use at flying facilities.  In addition, it expands the principle of fairuse by and compensation to either military or civilian users.  The title of this AFPD was changed fromCivil Aircraft Use of United States Air Force Airfields to the current title to emphasize the broader defini-tion of joint use and to align with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) definitions. The Air Forceestablishes and uses its airfields to support the scope and level of operations necessary to carry out AirForce missions worldwide.  The FAA establishes and manages airfields to support national transportationsystem needs.  The Congress funds airfields in response to Air Force and FAA requirements and specifiesthat civil aviation will have access to military airfields when it does not jeopardize an installation’s mili-tary utility.  Congress also specifies that Government aircraft will have access to civilian airfields devel-oped with financial assistance from the United States Government without charge.  The Air Forceroutinely engages in dialogue with the civil aviation community and FAA to ensure mutual understandingof long-term national air transportation system and programmed military force structure requirements.The Air Force must have policies that balance access requests with military needs. 2AFPD10-10   25 OCTOBER 20071.  General.  The Air Force will manage programs used to grant civil aircraft access to military airfields.These include:  civil aircraft landing permits, Commercial Activity on Military Installation (CAMI) con-tracts, and airfield joint use agreements.  Other arrangements for access will be negotiated as required forspecific purposes.1.1.  Landing Permits.  Normally, landing permits will only be issue to civil aircraft operating in sup-port of official Government business and for a one-time use or limited duration. Other use may beauthorized if justified by exceptional circumstances.  Access will be granted on an equitable basis.Civil aircraft access to Air Force airfields on foreign territory requires host nation approval.  1.2.  Contracts for Commercial Activity on a Military Installation (CAMI).  Per direction in Depart-ment of Defense Instruction (DODI) 4500.55, Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Carrier CommercialAccess to Military Installations for Non-DOD Operations, the Air Force will consider proposals to useAir Force airfields by individual air carriers who meet the criteria for this program and wish to con-duct domestic operations at an Air Force installation.  These proposals are not considered under jointuse guidelines.1.3.  Joint Use Agreements.  The Air Force participates in two types of routine joint airfield use:  civiluse of military airfields and military use of civil airfields.  In each case, the partners in agreement areexpected to pay for their fair share use of the jointly used flying facilities.1.3.1.  Civil Use of Military Airfields.  When the proposed civil use does not compromise opera-tions, security, readiness, safety, environment or quality of life and the sponsoring Governmentagency has sufficient financial resources to address associated civil costs, civil use of airfieldinfrastructure will be accommodated.  Only proposals submitted by authorized representatives oflocal government agencies eligible to sponsor a public airport will be evaluated for possible jointuse.  1.3.2.  Military Use of Civil Airfields.  The Air Force may operate at no cost from airports thathave received US Government funding under the provisions of Title 49, United States Code, Sec-tion 47107, except when its use is substantial.  Where the Air Force has a need for substantial useof a civilian airport, an agreement will be negotiated to outline responsibilities, rights and applica-ble fees.  In negotiating such agreements, the parties will consider the length of expected use andany associated permanent presence (longer than one year).1.4.  Airport Operations Agreements.  The Air Force may need to conduct limited operations from anairport or flying facility that is not supported by the Federal Government.  If so, an airport operationsagreement outlining responsibilities may be negotiated with the facility’s managing director.  Thistype of agreement may be negotiated locally if it does not involve any fees or other transfer ofresources and does not involve a continuous use or reach the level of substantial use (more than 300aircraft operations in one calendar month) by all combined federal users.  An operation is defined as atakeoff or landing.2.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:2.1.  The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations (SAF/IEI) is responsible forinstallation and facility policy.  SAF/IEI is the Air Force representative with the necessary authority topermit access to Air Force infrastructure.  SAF/IEI shall:2.1.1.  Provide oversight of joint use flying facilities.AFPD10-10   25 OCTOBER 200732.1.2.  Serve as the final approval authority for all joint use agreements and airport operationsagreements.  This approval authority may not be delegated for military installations.  For joint useagreements and airport operations agreements at civil airports, negotiation authority and executionmay be delegated on a case by case basis to the MAJCOM level, but no further.2.1.3.  Periodically review all policy for adherence to FAA guidance and current operationalrequirements and issue updates as necessary.2.1.4.  Annually review the status of all agreements to ensure compliance with negotiated terms,fee structure and payments and assess the operational impacts of each agreement.2.1.5.  Approve deviations from proportional payments for fair use of jointly approved flyingfacilities fee structures. 2.1.6.  Designate the lead office when multiple Air Force units use a common civil aviation facil-ity.  2.1.7.  Work with service counterparts and federal agencies to designate the lead federal agencywhen more than one service or federal agency is involved.2.2.  HQ USAF/A3/5, through the Director of Operations (A3O), the Director of Air Operations(A3O-A) and the Civil Aviation Division (A3O-AC) shall:2.2.1.  Review operational impacts associated with the mixed military/civil use of airfields.  2.2.2.  Ensure all impacts have been considered and addressed before forwarding a joint use pro-posal or agreement to SAF/IEI.2.2.3.  Determine the level of decision authority for landing permits and delegate authority as nec-essary to MAJCOMs and installation commanders.2.2.4.  Process all requests for exceptions or waivers to this policy directive and related Air Forceinstructions, unless otherwise delegated. 2.2.5.  Facilitate an annual review of all agreements to ensure adherence to the terms and fees.2.2.6.  Consolidate annual operational costs (air traffic control, weather services, etc.) for militaryuse of civilian airfields to assist in validating fair use fee assessments for military operations oncivil airfields.  2.3.  HQ USAF/A7C, the Civil Engineer, shall:2.3.1.  Review all proposed active duty agreements and renewals.2.3.2.  Coordinate on all proposed airfield joint use agreements for compliance with the environ-mental impact analysis process and other civil engineering related environmental considerationsfor civilian operations on military airfields. 2.3.3.  Provide annual facilities sustainment and operation costs for military owned, jointly usedflying facilities to assist in validating fair use fee assessments for civilian operations on militaryairfields.2.3.4.  Consolidate civil engineering related annual facilities sustainment costs for military use ofcivilian airfields to assist in validating fair use fee assessments for military operations on civil air-fields.4AFPD10-10   25 OCTOBER 20072.4.  Proposed and renewal agreements involving the Air Force Reserve or the Air National Guardwill be reviewed by AF/REL or NGB/A7C respectively.  These organizations will complete all coor-dination aspects listed above in 2.3.1 through 2.3.4.2.5.  The Air Force Real Property Agency shall:2.5.1.  Manage lease processing for Air Force-owned land or facilities included in a military air-field joint use agreement.2.5.2.  Manage lease and license processing for property acquired for military use at civilian air-ports, unless otherwise delegated.2.5.3.  Ensure that the value of any associated lease payments is taken into consideration and is incompliance with the “right to use” provision associated with civil aviation facilities use. 2.5.4.  Ensure no lease is processed that implies military presence at a civil airport beyond fiveyears without a SAF/IEI approved joint use or airport operations agreement.2.6.  MAJCOMs, including the Air Force Reserve Command and the Air National Guard, and instal-lation commanders shall:2.6.1.  Develop and maintain positive working relationships with their civilian tenants and hosts.This includes, but is not limited to, maintaining local operations agreements that outline responsi-bilities and authorities of each party.  Participate in joint development of the airfield to support thejointly used flying facilities.2.6.2.  Actively manage the program to ensure no agreement lapses and that all required feereviews are conducted in a timely manner.2.6.3.  Participate in all negotiations for new agreements or renewals and establish appropriate fis-cal policy to collect and issue fees. 2.6.4.  Periodically review flying programs and policies to assure compliance with 49 USC §47107 for substantial use provisions.3.  There shall only be one Air Force agreement supporting military operations for each civil airport used.When more than one Air Force unit regularly (more than 10% of total airport operations) uses a civil avi-ation facility, SAF/IEI will designate a lead unit who will account for the use by all Air Force activitiesand be the lead in discussions with civil airport officials.4.  Exceptions.  The following exceptions and rules apply:4.1.  Any aircraft operator with an in-flight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield withoutprior authorization.  An in-flight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight haz-ardous.  4.2.  Forced landings, as directed by Department of Homeland Security, shall be directed to the nearestcivilian airport where civil authorities will deal with on-board personnel and hazards.4.3.  On Air Force airfields, Air Force operational requirements take precedence over civil aircraftoperations.  At Air Force airfields with joint use agreements the conditions under which that prece-dence is enforced, will be specified in the agreement.AFPD10-10   25 OCTOBER 200754.4.  Civil aircraft using Air Force airfields in the United States are subject to Federal laws and regu-lations.  Civil aircraft using Air Force airfields in foreign countries are subject to US Federal laws andregulations that have extraterritorial effect and to applicable international agreements with the countryin which the Air Force installation is located.MICHAEL W. WYNNE,  Secretary of the Air Force6AFPD10-10   25 OCTOBER 2007Attachment 1  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATIONReferencesAFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons Systems Management, 8 Mar 2007.AFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Permits, 1 Sep 1995. AFI 10-1002, Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force Airfields, 1 Sep 1995.AFI 10-1003, Use of Air Force Installations for Non-Government Business by Civil Air Carriers Partici-pating in Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Program, 1 Aug 1996.Functional managers will, in addition to those issuances listed above, consider all relevant guidance doc-uments as they become situationally applicable.GOVERNING STATUES, POLICIES, AND DIRECTIVES:Title 31, United States Code, Sections 1301(a) and 1535Title 49, United States Code, Sections 44502, 47103, 47107DoD Directive 1225.07, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, 6 Jun 2001.  Imple-mented by AFPD 32-10 and AFI 32-1012.DoD Directive 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 7 April 2005.  Implemented by AFPD 10-3, AirReserve Component Forces, AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning, AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of AirReserve Component (ARC) Forces and AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning.AuthoritiesThe Secretary of the Air Force.  Title 10,  United States Code,  Section 8013 et seq. enumerates the var-ious authorities of the Secretary of the Air Force, among other things, to conduct all affairs of the Depart-ment of the Air Force, formulate policies and programs and prescribe regulations.  Adjutants General.  Title 32 United States Code, Section 314(d) stipulates that “The adjutant general ofeach State…shall make such returns and reports as…Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe…”National Guard Bureau.  Title 10 United States Code, Section10501(b) states that, “The National GuardBureau is the channel of communication on all matters pertaining to the National Guard,…the AirNational Guard of the United States… Department of the Air Force, and the several States.”  The Chief ofthe National Guard Bureau is the principal adviser to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force onmatters relating to the National Guard, and for Air Force matters is subject to their authority.  AFPD 10-9,Lead Operating Command Weapons System Management, identifies lead MAJCOM responsibilities forMDS Weapon Systems, both aircraft and non-aircraft entities.  The lead command (including ANG whendesignated as lead MAJCOM) is responsible for development of the support and management agree-ments, such as CONOPS and MOUs, for the system or systems.