BY ORDER OF THESECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 51-1019 OCTOBER 2006(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:21)  Law MAKING MILITARY PERSONNEL,EMPLOYEES, AND DEPENDENTSAVAILABLE TO CIVILIAN AUTHORITIESCOMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORYACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available digitally on the e-Publishing website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY: There are no releasablity restrictions on this publication. OPR: AFLOA/JAJMSupersedes AFPD 51-10, 8 September 1993 Certified by: AF/JA  (Maj Gen Jack L. Rives)Pages: 3This Air Force policy directive establishes procedures for making Air Force members, civilian personnel,and family members available to United States civilian authorities for trial or specified court appearances.This directive applies to all Air Force military personnel, including reserve members while on active orinactive duty training and Air National Guard members while in Federal status, all Departments of the AirForce civilian employees (including nonappropriated fund employees), and all dependents. This directiveimplements national policies contained in Article 14, UCMJ (Title 10, United States Code, Section 814);Public Law 100-456, Section 721(a); The Interstate Detainers Act, 18 U.S.C App. Section 1 et seq.; DoDInstruction 5525.09, Compliance of DoD Members, Employees, and Family Members Outside the UnitedStates With Court Orders, 10 February 2006; DoD Instruction 5525.11, Criminal Jurisdiction Over Civil-ians Employed By or Accompanying the Armed Forces Outside the United States, Certain Service Mem-bers, and Former Service Members, 3 March 2005; and, Air Force Instruction 51-1001, Making MilitaryPersonnel, Employees, and Dependents Available to Civilian Authorities. This directive does not conferany rights, benefits, privileges, or form of due process procedure upon any individuals. Refer recom-mended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) usingthe AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field throughthe appropriate functional’s chain of command. Nothing in this policy directive confers any rights, bene-fits, privileges, or form of due process procedure on any individual nor does it create any obligations forthe United States, the Department of Defense (DoD), or the US Air Force. Ensure that all records createdas a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123(will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AirForce Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. SUMMARY OF CHANGESThis publication has been revised to reflect the updated release of DoD Instructions 5525.11 and 5525.09.This revision updates the authority for procedures making military personnel, employees, and dependentsavailable to civilian authorities. 2AFPD51-10   19 OCTOBER 20061.  The Air Force demonstrates its full support of civil legal authorities by ensuring Air Force military andcivilian personnel and dependents do not use military assignments to avoid valid orders of civilian courts.This directive establishes policies for personnel who cooperated with legal civil authorities in enforcingcourt orders relating to military and civilian personnel and dependents. 2.  Requests by Federal authorities for members stationed within the United States will normally begranted when a warrant has been issued pursuant to Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.Requests by state authorities for members located in that state will normally be granted when the stateproduces documents preferring charges. 2.1.  Military members will not be transferred from a base within one state to a base within anotherstate for purposes of making them amenable to prosecution by civil authorities. 3.  Members stationed outside the United States will be expeditiously returned to requesting authorities incases where the member is convicted or charged with a felony or other serious offense (punishable byconfinement for more than 1 year) or is sought in connection with unlawful or contemptuous taking of achild from the jurisdiction of a court or from the lawful custody of another, unless noncompliance islegally justified. 4.  Commanders ordinarily do not have authority to compel civilian compliance with court orders, but willstrongly encourage civilians associated with their organizations to comply with valid orders of Federaland state courts, to include the use of adverse administrative actions against civilian employees, and with-holding of official sponsorship, where appropriate. 5.  A member subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) may be placed under restraint bymilitary authorities pending delivery to state or Federal authorities. Restraint may be imposed uponreceipt of information establishing probable cause that the member committed the offense, and upon rea-sonable belief that the restraint is necessary. Restraint may continue only so long as necessary to effectdelivery. 6.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities: 6.1.  Commanders will respond promptly to requests from civil authorities within the United States forassistance. A commander exercising general court-martial jurisdiction, or an installation commanderwhen authorized by the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction, may authorize delivery ofa member of his or her command to Federal or state civil authorities. 6.2.  The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) shall grant excep-tions on a case-by-case basis with the concurrence of General Counsel (GC), DoD. 6.3.  The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) is the approval authority for requests in cases described inparagraph 3., and may recommend denial. TJAG may approve or deny requests for return of Air Forcemembers from overseas for offenses, which do not fit the criteria of paragraph 3., upon determinationby TJAG that the best interests of the Air Force require it. TJAG may also approve a delay of up to 90days to complete action on any request to return a member from overseas. 6.4.  Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Military Justice Division (AFLOA/JAJM), is responsiblefor timely processing of requests for the return of members of the United States for delivery to civilianauthorities. AFPD51-10   19 OCTOBER 200637.  This policy directive interfaces with AFI 34-301, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Management andAdministration; AFI 36-703, Civilian Conduct and Responsibility; AFI 36-704, Discipline and AdverseAction; AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice; and AFI 51-1001, Delivery of Personnel toUnited States Civilian Authorities for Trial.  Michael W. Wynne Secretary of the Air Force 