BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-28 26 APRIL 2016 Personnel AWARDS AND DECORATIONS PROGRAMS     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A1S  Supersedes:  AFPD 36-28, 9 May 2014  Certified by: SAF/MR  (Daniel R. Sitterly) Pages: 4 This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense (DoD)  Instruction (DoDI) 1348.19, Award of Trophies and Similar Devices in Recognition of Accomplishments and DoDI 1348.33, Military Awards Program.  This directive establishes the framework for the Air Force Awards, Decorations, and Special Recognition Program and applies to units and personnel of  the  Regular  Air  Force,  Air  National  Guard,  and  Air  Force  Reserve  and  Air  Force  civilian employees  specified  by  Air  Force  instructions.    In  collaboration  with  the  Chief  of  Air  Force Reserve  and  the  Director  of  the  Air  National  Guard,  the  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1)  develops  personnel  policy  for  Air  Force  Awards, Decorations,  and  Special  Recognition  programs.  This  AFPD  may  not  be  supplemented.    Refer recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  Air  Force  (AF)  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Form  847’s  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  functional  chain  of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  located  in  the  Air  Force  Records  Information Management System. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This directive has been significantly revised and should be reviewed in its entirety.  This revision provides  new  requirements  for  quarterly  and  annual  awards  (para  2.2.2),  clarifies  functional areas  authority  to  administer  their  awards  programs  (para  2.4),  and  changes  the  board 2 AFPD36-28  26 APRIL 2016 composition  for the 12  Outstanding Airmen of the Year and First  Sergeant  of the Year awards (para 3.3.1). 1.  Overview.  Air Force personnel make many personal and professional sacrifices to ensure the Air  Force  accomplishes  its  missions  and  is  a  respected  part  of  our  society.    Acts  of  valor, heroism, exceptional service, and outstanding achievement deserve special recognition, and this policy establishes guidance for recognizing individuals and groups. 2.  Policy.  The Air Force will have a recognition program to foster morale, incentive, and esprit de corps. 2.1.  The Air Force will have an Awards and Decorations Program.  Personnel or units who receive  awards  and  decorations  under  this  program  must  clearly  demonstrate  sustained  and superior  performance.    This  program  will  include  campaign,  expeditionary,  and  service medals. 2.2.  The  Air  Force  will  have  a  Special  Recognition  Program.    It  will  recognize  acts  of bravery, outstanding achievements, or periods of meritorious service.  This program will also encompass awards from private organizations that seek Air Force participation. 2.2.1.  In an effort to streamline the workload and to standardize the nomination process, nomination  packages  for  Air  Force  level  awards  are  limited  to  one  page  and  will  be submitted  on  an  Air  Force  Form  1206,  Nomination  for  Award.    Exceptions  to  this requirement  must  be  approved  by  the  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1). 2.2.2.  When evaluating significant self-improvement for quarterly and annual awards for officers,  do  not  consider  course  enrollment  and/or  completion  for  Advanced  Academic Degrees, Developmental Education and Distance Learning. 2.3.  Major Commands (MAJCOM) may create and administer their own awards programs. 2.4.  Functional  areas  administer  their  awards  programs,  but  may  not  create  new  awards.  Functional areas requiring the use of base visits to help determine award winners are limited to one visit per base per award. 2.5.  MAJCOMs  and  functional  areas  may  participate  in  awards  programs  sponsored  by national  organizations.    When  they  do  participate  in  such  programs,  they  will  process  their own submissions. 3.  Responsibilities.  This  policy  directive  establishes  the  following  responsibilities  and authorities: 3.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  provides  guidance,  direction,  and oversight  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  formulation,  review,  and  execution  of  plans, policies, programs, and budgets addressing the Air Force Awards and Decorations Program.  SAF/MR also interfaces with the Office of the Secretary of Defense concerning development of DoD policy and legislative initiatives pertaining to the Awards and Decorations Program. 3.2.  The  AF/A1  develops,  coordinates,  and  executes  personnel  policy  and  essential procedural guidance for the management of the various award programs. AFPD36-28  26 APRIL 2016 3 3.3.  With  AF/A1  guidance  and  approval,  the  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC)  will develop  specific  requirements  for  each  Air  Force  award  and  decoration.    At  a  minimum, AFPC  will  specify  the  establishing  authority,  nomination  or  selection  criteria,  eligibility criteria, and the awarding authority for each award and decoration. 3.3.1.  A  general  officer  or  civilian  equivalent  will  chair  all  military  and  civilian nomination or selection boards for USAF, DoD and National award programs, except the boards for the 12 Outstanding Airmen of the Year and First Sergeant of the Year. 3.3.2.  The 12 Outstanding Airmen of the Year and First Sergeant of the Year boards will be  chaired  by  the  Chief  Master  Sergeant  of  the  Air  Force  and  consist  of  four  Major Command or Combatant Command level Chief Master Sergeants. 3.4.  Commanders and Civilian Directors administer and ensure compliance with the various Air Force recognition programs.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD36-28  26 APRIL 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDI 1348.19, Award of Trophies and Similar Devices in Recognition of Accomplishments, 3 February 2014 DoDI 1348.33, Military Awards Program, 1 July 2004 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Adopted Forms AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AF/A1—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction MAJCOM—Major Command OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs USAF—United States Air Force  