 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-60 2 OCTOBER 2014 SPECIAL MANAGEMENT SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the  e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/CVS  Supersedes:   AFPD36-60, 28 March 2008 Certified by: AF/CVS  (Major General Gina M. Grosso) Pages: 6   This  directive  provides  policy  and  assigns  responsibility  for  the  prevention  of  and  response  to sexual assault and establishes command relationships, authorities and responsibilities in support of  the  policy.  The  policy  applies  to  all  levels  of  command  and  all  Air  Force  organizations including  the  Active  Duty,  Air  Force  government  civilian  employees,  United  States  Air  Force Academy,  Air  National  Guard  and  Air  Force  Reserve  components  while  in  federal  service.  It addresses  the  requirements  of  the  Ronald  W.  Reagan  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for fiscal year 2005, P.L. 108-375, as amended and supplemented, October 28, 2004, Section 577(e), the  Duncan  Hunter  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  fiscal  year  2009,  P.L.  110-417, Section  567(c)  the  National  Defense  Authorization  Act  for  Fiscal  year  2010,  P.L.  111-84  and implements Department of Defense Directive 6495.01, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program. Comments  and  recommended  changes  regarding  this  publication  should  be  sent  through appropriate  channels  using  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication,  to  the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), AF/CVS. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  and  disposed  of  IAW  AFMAN  33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  1.  Policy.  Providing  a  safe,  respectful,  and  productive  work  environment  free  from  sexual harassment  and  sexual  assault  is  the  responsibility  of  every  Airman.  The  Air  Force’s  mission depends on Airmen having complete trust and confidence in one another. Air Force core values of Integrity First, Service Before Self and Excellence In All We Do, define the standard. Sexual assault is absolutely incompatible with our core values, our mission, and our heritage. As such,   2  AFPD90-60  2 OCTOBER 2014 the  Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and  Response  (SAPR)  program  is  a  priority  both  for  ensuring readiness and taking care of our Airmen. It is Air Force policy to: 1.1.  Eliminate sexual assault within the Department of the Air Force through awareness and prevention training, education, reporting, response, victim advocacy, and accountability. The Air  Force  promotes  sensitive  care  and  supports  confidential  reporting  for  victims  of  sexual assault. 1.2.  Provide mechanisms at the recruiting and accession points to prevent previous offenders from entering the Air Force. 1.3.  Ensure  strong  prevention  and  response  programs, law  enforcement, investigative, and military justice policies and procedures that address victim safety and hold offenders appropriately accountable for their actions. including 1.4.  Provide an immediate, trained response capability for each report of sexual assault in all areas,  including  in  deployed  locations,  and  ensure  victims  receive  timely  access  to appropriate treatment and services. 1.5.  Treat  sexual  assault  patients  as  emergency  cases  that  will  be  given  priority.  A  sexual assault  victim may  need immediate medical  intervention to  prevent  loss  of life or suffering resulting  from  physical  injuries  (internal  or  external),  sexually  transmitted  infections, pregnancy,  and  psychological  distress.  Individuals  disclosing  a  recent  sexual  assault,  with their  consent,  will  be  quickly  transported  to  the  exam  site,  promptly  evaluated,  treated  for serious  injuries,  and  then,  with  the  patient’s  consent,  undergo  a  Sexual  Assault  Forensic Exam (SAFE). 1.5.1.  Emergency care shall consist of emergency medical care and a SAFE. Refer to the DD Form 2911, “DoD Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Report,” and accompanying instructions.  The  victim  shall  be  advised  that  even  if  a  SAFE  is  declined,  the  victim  is encouraged (but not mandated) to receive medical care, psychological care, legal services and victim advocacy. 1.6.  Protect victims of sexual assault from retaliation, reprisal and harassment resulting from their reporting. 1.7.  Ensure  victims  of  sexual  assault  are  protected;  treated  with  dignity  and  respect;  and provided support, advocacy and care. The Air Force supports effective command awareness and prevention programs. The Air  Force  also  strongly supports  applicable law  enforcement and military justice procedures that enable persons to be held accountable for sexual assault offenses and criminal dispositions, as appropriate. To achieve these dual objectives, the Air Force  provides  a  non-confidential,  Unrestricted  Report  of  sexual  assaults  to  allow  for  the provision of victims’ services and to hold offenders appropriately accountable. However, this may represent a barrier for victims to access services, when the victim desires no command or  law  enforcement  involvement.  Consequently,  the  Air  Force  provides  a  confidential disclosure vehicle via the Restricted Report. 1.8.  Provide support to our total force Airmen regardless of when or where the sexual assault took place. 2.  Definitions.  Terms used in this Policy Directive are defined in attachment 1 and comply with those required in DoDD 6495.01 and DoDI 6495.02. AFPD90-60  2 OCTOBER 2014   3  3.  Responsibilities and Authorities. 3.1.  The  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  serves  as  the  senior  uniformed  officer  responsible for overseeing and providing recommendations to the Secretary on the issue of sexual assault policy  matters  on  prevention,  response,  oversight,  standards,  training,  and  program requirements. 3.2.  The  Vice  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary  and provides  guidance,  direction,  and  oversight  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets addressing sexual assault as well  as  develops  performance-based  metrics,  leading  indicators,  and  feedback  protocols  to assess ongoing program performance. 3.3.  The  Inspector  General  (SAF/IG)  is  responsible  for  supervising,  directing,  and  guiding the  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  (AFOSI)  in  accordance  with  HAF  Mission Directive 1-20, The Inspector General. The SAF/IG is  also responsible for ensuring AFOSI agents  are  appropriately  trained  to  investigate  sexual  offenses  in  accordance  with  (IAW) DoDI 5505.18, Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense. 3.4.  The  Air  Force  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC)  develops  and  interprets  legal  policy  and provides  legal  oversight  and  guidance  for  all  aspects  of  sexual  assault  policy,  and  other matters related to sexual assault, as needed. 3.5.  The  Director,  Air  Force  Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and  Response  (AF/CVS)  is responsible for all activities related to this directive to include: 3.5.1.  Resourcing of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) program  and reporting on program accomplishment. 3.5.2.  Policy  and  operational  oversight  for  the  SAPR  program  through  standards, training, research, analysis and program requirements, and maintains functional oversight of program execution and related AF sponsored measurement and research. 3.5.3.  Development  and  approval  of  required  training  for  Air  Force  Sexual  Assault Response  Coordinators  (SARC),  Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and  Response  Victim Advocates (SAPR VA), and Volunteer Victim Advocates (VVA), and establishes annual training  requirements  to  comply  with  DoD  mandated  training  standards  as  well  as ensuring  all  SARCs,  SAPR  VAs,  and  VVAs  are  properly  credentialed  IAW  DoD Instruction 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Procedures. 3.6.  The Judge Advocate General (TJAG, AF/JA) is responsible for military justice activities related  to  this  directive  and  assists  in  developing,  coordinating,  and  executing  legal  policy and  essential  procedural  guidance  for  the  management  of  sexual  assault  issues.  TJAG  is responsible for ensuring required training of all judge advocates in sexual assault policy and related matters. TJAG is the responsible official for administration of the Victim and Witness Assistance Program (VWAP) as well as the Special Victim’s Counsel. 3.7.  The  Surgeon  General  (AF/SG)  is  responsible  for  health  care  policies,  clinical  practice guidelines,  related  procedures,  and  standards  governing  Air  Force  healthcare  programs  for victims of sexual assault. The Surgeon General is responsible for ensuring required training of health care personnel in sexual assault policy and related matters.   4  AFPD90-60  2 OCTOBER 2014 3.8.  The  Chief  of  Chaplains  (AF/HC)  is  responsible  for  Chaplain  Corps  policies  and procedural  guidance  for  matters  related  to  sexual  assault.  The  Chief  of  Chaplains  is responsible  to  ensure  members  of  the  Chaplain  Corps  complete  required  training  in  sexual assault policy and related matters. 3.9.  The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7),  through  the  Director,  Air  Force  Security  Forces  (AF/A7S)  is  responsible  for security and law enforcement guidelines and related procedures. The Director is responsible for ensuring Security Forces investigators are sufficiently trained to investigate the offenses under their purview ensuring all law enforcement personnel are trained to respond to sexual assault allegations in their first responder capacity. 3.10.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force,  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services (AF/A1)  is  responsible  for  developing,  coordinating,  and  executing:    SARC  assignments; civilian  SARC/SAPR  VA  hiring;  SARC  professional  development  education,  training,  and broadening; expedited transfer of approved subject and victim requests; SARC deployments; 38P  career  development  (military  SARCs);  and  separation  and  retirement  processing  for Airmen.  AF/A1  is  responsible  for  employing  recruiting  processes  to  prevent  accession  of previous offenders. 3.11.  The  Chief  of  Air  Force  Reserve  (AF/RE)  implements  sexual  assault  prevention  and response  programs  for  Air  Force  Reserve  personnel  that  comply  with  this  policy  directive and ensures the training of Reserve personnel in sexual assault policy and related matters. 3.12.  The  Director  of  the  Air  National  Guard  (NGB/CF)  implements  sexual  assault prevention and response programs for Air National Guard (ANG) personnel that comply with this policy directive and appropriate National Guard Bureau policy and ensures the training of ANG personnel in sexual assault policy and related matters. 3.13.  MAJCOM  commanders  implement  sexual  assault  prevention  and  response  programs consistent  with  these  policies  and  procedures.  MAJCOM  oversight  will  not  be  delegated below the MAJCOM Vice Commander or equivalent position. 3.14.  HQ  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC)  develops  and  distributes,  in coordination with AF/CVS, appropriate sexual assault educational materials for all levels of accession, technical training and professional military education sources.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force AFPD90-60  2 OCTOBER 2014   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Section 577 of Public Law 108-375, “Ronald Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005,” October 28, 2004 Public Law 110-417, “Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009”, October 14, 2008 Section 567(c) of Public Law 111-84, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2010”, October 28, 2009 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFMAN 36-363, Management of Records, August 29, 2013, as amended DoD Directive 6495.01, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, January 23, 2012, as amended DoD Instruction 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Procedures, March 28, 2013, as amended HAF Mission Directive 1-20, The Inspector General, 26 September 2013 DoD Instruction 5505.18, Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense, as amended Prescribed Forms None. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication DD Form 2911, DoD Sexual Assault Forensic Examination Report Abbreviations and Acronyms CONUS—continental United States FP—Headquarters Air Force focal point OCONUS—outside of the continental United States SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response SAPR VA—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate SVC—Special Victim Counsel VVA—Volunteer Victim Advocate VWAP—Victim and Witness Assistance Program   6  Terms AFPD90-60  2 OCTOBER 2014 Commander—An officer who occupies a position of command authorized by appointment or by assumption of command. Headquarters  Air  Force—The  HAF,  which  is  comprised  of  both  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff Offices. Sexual Assault—For the purpose of this Directive and SAPR awareness training and education, the term “sexual assault” is defined as intentional sexual contact, characterized by use of force, threats,  intimidation  or  abuse  of  authority  or  when  the  victim  does  not  or  cannot  consent.  It includes a broad category of sexual offenses consisting of the following specific UCMJ offenses: rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, forcible sodomy (forced oral or anal sex), or attempts to commit these acts. Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)—An Air Force civilian employee or Air Force officer reporting to the installation Commander, who serves as the commander’s central point of contact at installation level or within a geographic area to ensure appropriate care is coordinated and provided to  victims of sexual  assault  and tracks the services provided to  a victim from  the initial  report through final  disposition and resolution.  Ensures the implementation of the SAPR program, to include sexual assault awareness, prevention and response training. Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and  Response  Victim  Advocate  (SAPR  VA)—Full-time  general service  civilian  employees  selected  and  trained  by  the  SARC,  who  provide  essential  support, liaison services and care to victims. Victim—For  the  purpose  of  this  Directive,  a  victim  is  a  person  who  asserts  direct  physical, emotional,  or  pecuniary  harm  as  a  result  of  the  commission  of  a  sexual  assault.  The  term encompasses all persons 18 and over eligible to receive treatment in military medical facilities; however,  Restricted  Reporting  applies  to  Service  members  and  their  military  dependents  18 years of age and older. Volunteer  Victim  Advocate  (VVA)—Military and DoD civilian employee volunteers selected and trained by the SARC, who provide essential support, liaison services and care to victims. Victim  and  Witness  Assistance  Program  (VWAP)—The  program  to  mitigate  the  physical, psychological, and financial hardships suffered by victims and witnesses of offenses investigated by  U.S.  Air  Force  authorities;  foster  cooperation  between  victims,  witnesses,  and  the  military justice system; and ensure best efforts are extended to protect the rights of victims and witnesses.  