BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-121 JULY 1998Operations SupportPARARESCUENOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ USAF/XOOS  (SMSgt Paul D. Miller) Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO  (Maj Gen Charles R.Henderson)Pages: 5Distribution: FThe recovery of downed aircrew members and other isolated personnel during peacetime or combat oper-ations is of great importance to the Air Force.  Successful survivor/evader recovery returns valuable per-sonnel to friendly control, increases aircrew morale, and denies adversaries the opportunity to exploit theintelligence and propaganda value of captured personnel.  The Air Force requires a well trained, fullymanned pararescue force in order to preserve life and maintain an effective, global rescue and recoverycapability in support of national defense strategy.1. Pararescue is a component of the Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) force or part of Air Force Spe-cial Operations Command Special Tactics Teams (STS) and provides a capability Joint Force Command-ers can use to recover combat aircrews and other isolated personnel in Personnel Recovery (PR)operations.  Pararescue is the only DoD specialty specifically trained and equipped to conduct conven-tional or unconventional PR operations and is the force of choice for assisted survivor recovery.  Parares-cue performs as an essential air/ground interface in Air Force and Special Operations search, rescue, andrecovery operations by functioning on flying status and as surface elements and teams.  They provide arapid response capability and operate in a wide range of adverse geographic and environmental condi-tions, day or night, on land or water, in friendly, denied, hostile, or sensitive areas.  They also provide sur-vival and evasion assistance, emergency and field trauma care, and security.  Pararescue forces arecapable of moving objectives (personnel and materiel) to safety or friendly control when direct recoveryby aircraft is not possible.2. Pararescue requirements are based on the following guidelines:2.1. Pararescuemen will be qualified in accordance with AFM 36-21082.2. Pararescuemen will be trained as a worldwide deployable resource capable of operations in anyterrain or under any environmental conditions (both naturally occurring and induced).  They can besuccessfully employed, day or night, in low, medium, or high threat environments.3. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:2AFPD16-12   1 JULY 19983.1. HQ USAF has oversight responsibility for pararescue policy and career field management.  Spe-cifically, HQ USAF/XO will establish and approve policies pertaining to the training and employmentof pararescuemen, coordinate Mission Essential Tasks (MET) and measures to meet pararescue vali-dated requirements, and publish and update the Pararescue Career Field Education and Training Plan(CFETP).3.2. MAJCOMs will organize, train, and equip pararescue forces to meet worldwide deploymenttaskings; provide resources to support pararescue combat tasks; ensure pararescue programs aredirected to meet qualifications IAW AFI 16-1203, Pararescue Training and Standarization/Evalua-tion; conduct pararescue proficiency assessment; and develop, test, and validate proposed enhance-ments to pararescue equipment and tactics based on validated mission needs and operationalrequirements documentation.3.3. Gaining (supported) commands/units will direct by contingency plan or tasking message the mis-sion requirements for deploying pararescue personnel.4. See Attachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.5. See Attachment 2 for a listing of interfacing publications for related policies and procedures. F. WHITTEN PETERSActing Secretary of the Air ForceAFPD16-12   1 JULY 19983MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICYAttachment 1 A1.1. Compliance with Air Force pararescue policy will be assessed in two areas:  An objective evalua-tion of pararescue qualification training during MAJCOM Operational Readiness Inspections (ORI) orMAJCOM specific Inspector General Inspections or MAJCOM Unit Compliance Inspections (UCI), andthe overall retention rate of first term and career airmen by major command.  Retention rates will bereported to MAJCOMs annually.  These events will measure the effectiveness of training programs.  Areview of pararescue operational mission and event after action reports will indicate compliance withequipment and operational policies.A1.1.1. Retention rate of first term and career airmen.  The overall retention rate of first term andcareer airmen will be reported by major command annually (Figure A1.1.).  Length of the pararescuetraining pipeline (which make rapid adjustments difficult) and historical overall manning problemsrequire that HQ Air Force and MAJCOMs monitor closely the health of the career field to ensureoperational recovery capabilities provided by pararescue are not degraded.  Monitoring of retentionrates will ensure MAJCOMs are proactive in establishing policies that will maintain a motivated, fullytrained, and employable pararescue force for any level of conflict.A1.1.2. Pararescue Qualification Training.  MAJCOMs will report (Figure A1.2.) the results of ORIevaluations of pararescue qualification training annually in terms of percentage compliance withestablished policies.A1.1.3. After Action Reports.  These reports are a summary of actions performed on actual missions.Deviations from standard use of equipment and procedures will be compiled, expressed as a percent-age of policy compliance (same format shown in Figure A1.2.) and reviewed at least annually.4AFPD16-12   1 JULY 1998Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Retention of First Term Airman (Career Airman retention will use same format).Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Compliance with Policy.AFPD16-12   1 JULY 19985Attachment 2 LIST OF INTERFACING PUBLICATIONSTitleFormerlyNo Former PublicationNo Former PublicationNo Former PublicationNo Former PublicationAFRs 28-2,   28-3,  28-4,28-6, 28-10 and AFP 28-33AFR 28-4No Former PublicationNo Former PublictionOperations PlanningPhysical SecurityCombat Search and Rescue (CSAR)Special OperationsOperation Plan and Concept Plan Development and ImplementationDeployment PlanningPararescue Resource ManagementPararescue Training and Standarization/ EvaluationArming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel AFR 125-26Combat Arms Training and Maintenance AFR 50-36(CATM) ProgramPararescue Operations, Techniques, and ProceduresSurvival, Evasion, and Recovery TrainingARRSR 55-11, Vols 1 & 2AFR 64-4, Vol 1Publication NumberAFPD 10-4AFPD 31-1AFDD 34AFDD 35AFI 10-401AFI 10-403AFI 16-1201AFI 16-1203AFI 31-207AFI 36-2226AFMAN 16-1202AFMAN 36-2216