BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-3 9 JUNE 2016 Special Management INSPECTOR GENERAL--THE COMPLAINTS RESOLUTION PROGRAM     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/IGQ  Supersedes:  AFPD 90-3, 18 August 2009  Certified by: SAF/IG  (Lt Gen Gregory A. Biscone) Pages: 7 This  directive  implements  Title  10,  United  States  Code  (USC),  Section  8020  (10  USC  8020), Inspector  General;  Title  10,  USC,  Section  1034  (10  USC  1034),  Military  Whistleblower Protection  Act;  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  Directive  5505.06,  Investigations  of  Allegations Against  Senior  Officials  of  the  Department  of  Defense;  DoD  Directive  7050.06,  Military Whistleblower Protection; DoD Instruction 7050.01, Defense Hotline Program, and is consistent with  Headquarters  Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (HAFMD)  1-20,  The  Inspector  General.    It establishes the framework for the Air Force  Inspector General  (IG) Complaints Resolution  and Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA) programs.    It  applies to  all Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  personnel.    This  directive  requires  collecting  and  maintaining information  protected by the Privacy  Act of 1974 as implemented by AFI  33-332,  Privacy Act Program  and  authorized  by  10  USC  8013,  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force;  and  10  USC  8020.  Department  of  the  Air  Force  Systems  of  Record  notice  F090  AF  IG  B,  Inspector  General Records applies.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route AF  Form 847  from the field  through the  appropriate  MAJCOM  IG.   Ensure that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  described  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. 2 AFPD90-3  9 JUNE 2016 SUMMARY OF CHANGES This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  References to “Pay Band 3s and mental health evaluations were removed.  Definitions for adverse information, protected communication and reprisal were updated. 1.  Policy.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  Inspector  General  (SAF/IG)  is  responsible  for  the management  and  administration  of  the  Air  Force  Inspector  General  Complaints  Resolution Program.  As such, SAF/IG will: 1.1.  Issue  guidance  for  the  administration  and  management  of  credible  and  responsive  AF Complaints Resolution and FWA Programs. 1.2.  Inquire into and report on the discipline, efficiency, and economy of the Air Force. 1.3.  Direct investigations and provide oversight for all Air Force IG investigations regardless of what level IG conducts the investigation.  This includes the authority to comment on and to overturn the findings and conclusions of any IG investigation. 1.4.  Assess and determine the disposition of all allegations of misconduct made against Air Force Senior Officials. 1.5.  Review all potentially adverse information and adverse information of a credible nature against  colonel-selects,  colonels,  and  general  officers,  and  draft  an  Adverse  Information Summary for possible inclusion in a Senior Officer Unfavorable Information File (SOUIF). 1.6.  Act  as  the  central  repository  for  all  adverse  information  on  field  grade  and  general officers for the purpose of possible disclosure during general officer promotion selection or federal  recognition  boards,  nomination  and  confirmation  processes  as  well  as  possible disclosure  to  CSAF  regarding  officers  placed  on  the  command  candidate  list,  or  other disclosure as directed by SECAF or CSAF. 1.7.  Act as central repository for all adverse information on Air Force senior executives, and GS-15s  for  the  purpose  of  possible  disclosure  when  an  individual  is  considered  for  a leadership  assignment  as  part  of  the  Leadership  Development  Board,  appointment  to  the senior executive service, or considered for a major award. 1.8.  Investigate  alleged  ethics  violations  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  DoD  5500.7-R  Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), when appropriate. 1.9.  Investigate allegations of a violation of any law, rule, regulation, gross mismanagement, gross  waste  of  funds,  an  abuse  of  authority,  or  a  substantial  and  specific  danger  to  public health  or  safety  referred  through  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC)  as part of a Title 5  United  States Code § 1213 Office of Special  Counsel  (OSC) investigation IAW AFI 51-1102, Cooperation with the Office of Special Counsel. 1.10.  Designate a Defense Hotline Component Coordinator to report the results of inquiries conducted in response to Defense Hotline referrals. 2.  Roles  and  Responsibilities.  MAJCOM,  NAF,  DRU,  FOA,  Center,  Wing  and  Installation commanders and Air National Guard units will: 2.1.  Establish  procedures  to  manage  the  Air  Force  Complaints  Resolution  and  FWA Programs at their level and below. AFPD90-3  9 JUNE 2016 3 2.2.  Appoint  an  independent  IG  for  their  organization  who  is  directly  responsible  to  the commander.  An IG is optional at designated FOAs and at the NAF level. 3.  Subject  to  the  right  against  self-incrimination  and  other  Constitutional  rights,  Air  Force military and civilian members have a duty to promptly report all allegations of wrongdoing to an appropriate supervisor or commander, the IG, an inspector, or through an established grievance channel upon becoming aware of the matter. 4.  Air Force military members will not be restricted from making a lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an IG. 5.  Air Force military members and civilian employees will not be reprised against for making or preparing to make a protected communication.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD90-3  9 JUNE 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Title 5, United States Code, Section 1213, Whistleblower Protection Act Title 10, United States Code, Section 1034, Military Whistleblower Protection Act Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013, Secretary of the Air Force Title 10, United States Code, Section 8020, Inspector General DoDD 5505.06, Investigations of Allegations Against Senior Officials of the Department of Defense, 6 June 2013 DoDD 7050.06, Military Whistleblower Protection, 17 April 2015 DoDI 7050.01, Defense Hotline Program, 17 December 2007 DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 1 August 1993 Through Change 7, November 17, 2011 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 12 January 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFI 51-1102, Cooperation with the Office of Special Counsel, 23 April 2015 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ANG—Air National Guard CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction FWA—Fraud, Waste, and Abuse IG—Inspector General JER—Joint Ethics Regulation SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice USC—United States Code AFPD90-3  9 JUNE 2016 5 Terms Abuse—Intentional, wrongful or improper use of Air Force resources.  Examples include misuse of rank, position, or authority that causes the loss or misuse of resources such as tools, vehicles, computers, or copy machines. Adverse Information—DOD policy defines adverse information: 1.    A  substantiated  adverse  finding  or  conclusion  from  an  officially  documented investigation or inquiry; or 2.  Any credible information of an adverse nature.  To be credible, the information must be resolved and supported by a preponderance of the evidence.  To be adverse, the information must be derogatory, unfavorable, or of a nature that reflects unacceptable conduct, or a lack of integrity or judgment on the part of the individual. For the purposes of this definition, the following types of information, even though credible, are not considered adverse: a.  Motor vehicle violations that did not require a court appearance. b.  Minor infractions without negative effect on an individual or the good order and discipline of the organization that: (1)  Was not identified as a result of substantiated findings or conclusion from an officially documented investigation, and (2)  Did not result in more than a non-punitive rehabilitative counseling administered by a superior to a subordinate. 3.  Adverse information does not include: a.  Information previously considered by the Senate pursuant to the officer’s appointment; or b.    Information  attributed  to  an  individual  10  or  more  years  before  the  date  of  the personnel  action  under  consideration,  except  for  incidents,  which  if  tried  by  court—martial,  could  have  resulted  in  the  imposition  of  a  punitive  discharge  and  confinement for more than one year—the date of the substantiated adverse finding or conclusion from an officially documented investigation or inquiry is used to establish the time period, not the date of the incident. Fraud—Any intentional deception designed to unlawfully deprive the Air Force of something of value or to secure from the Air Force for an individual a benefit, privilege, allowance, or consideration to which he or she is not entitled.  Such practices include, but are not limited to: 1.  The offer, payment, acceptance of bribes or gratuities, or evading or corrupting inspectors or other officials. 2.  Making false statements, submitting false claims or using false weights or measures. 3.  Deceit, either by suppressing the truth or misrepresenting material facts, or to deprive the Air Force of something of value. 4.  Adulterating or substituting materials, falsifying records and books of accounts. 5.  Conspiring to carry out any of the above actions. 6.  The term also includes conflict of interest cases, criminal irregularities, and the unauthorized disclosure of official information relating to procurement and disposal matters. For purposes of this instruction, the definition can include any theft or diversion of resources for personal or commercial gain. 6 AFPD90-3  9 JUNE 2016 Investigation—A duly authorized, systematic, detailed examination to uncover the facts and determine the truth of a matter.  IG investigations are administrative in nature--they are fact finding rather than judicial proceedings.  They are not criminal proceedings in which proof beyond a reasonable doubt is required.  Rather, the standard of proof that applies is proof by a preponderance of the evidence.  Investigations require formal collection of evidence, taking sworn testimony from complainants, witnesses and subjects, and documentation of the findings in a Report of Investigation.  An investigation is an evidence-gathering exercise to substantiate or not substantiate an allegation. Lawful Communication—Any communication, whether verbal or written or otherwise transmitted, including complaints, witness statements, and testimony, which is not otherwise unlawful. Protected Communication— 1.  Any lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an IG.  2.    A  communication  in  which  a  member  of  the  Armed  Forces  communicates  information that the member reasonably believes evidences a violation of law or regulation, including a law or regulation prohibiting rape, sexual assault, or other sexual misconduct in violation of Articles  120  through  120c  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  sexual  harassment,  or unlawful  discrimination,  gross  mismanagement,  a  gross  waste  of  funds  or  other  resources, an  abuse  of  authority,  or  a  substantial  and  specific  danger  to  public  health  or  safety,  or  a threat  by  another member of the armed forces or employee of the  federal  government  that indicates a determination or intent  to  kill or cause serious bodily injury to members of the armed  forces  or  civilians  or  damage  to  military,  federal,  or  civilian  property,  when  such communication is made to any of the following (this list is not all inclusive): a.  Member of Congress or a member of their staff. b.  An inspector general or a member of the inspector general’s staff. c.    Personnel  assigned  to  DoD  audit,  inspection,  investigation,  law  enforcement, equal opportunity, safety, sexual assault prevention and response designees, and, or family advocacy organizations. d.  Any person in the member’s chain of command. e.  The Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force, Command Chiefs, Group/Squadron Superintendents, and First Sergeants. f.  A court-martial proceeding. 3.    Testimony,  or  otherwise  participating  in  or  assisting  in  an  investigation  or  proceeding related  to  a  communication  under  part  1  or  2  above,  or  filing,  causing  to  be  filed, participating  in,  or  otherwise  assisting  in  an  inquiry/investigation  of  a  reprisal  and/or restriction complaint. 4.  A communication described in  part 2 above shall not  be excluded from  the protections provided in this definition because — a.  The communication was made to a person who participated in an activity that the member reasonably believed to be covered by part 2 above; b.  The communication revealed information that had been previously disclosed; c.  Of the member’s motive for making the communication; d.  The communication was not made in writing; e.  The communication was made while the member was off duty; and  AFPD90-3  9 JUNE 2016 7 f.  The communication was made during the normal course of duties of the member. Reprisal—Taking or threatening to take an unfavorable personnel action, or withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action on a military member for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing to make a protected communication. Senior Officer Unfavorable Information File (SOUIF) —A SOUIF is a written summary of adverse information pertaining to a colonel or a general officer, plus any comments from the subject officer regarding the written summary.  SOUIFs are created for use during the general officer promotion process and exist solely for that purpose.  The Secretary of the Air Force or designee (SAF/GC) determines if a SOUIF is provided to a promotion board. Senior Official —A Senior Official is defined as any active or retired Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or Air National Guard military officer in grades O-7 (brigadier general) select and above; Air National Guard Colonels with a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) as senior officials.  Current or former members of the Senior Executive Service (SES) or equivalent; and current and former Air Force civilian Presidential appointees.  (NOTE:  under DOD policy, an officer becomes an O-7 select, and therefore a senior official, at the time the selection board that selects the officer adjourns.) Waste—The extravagant, careless, or needless expenditure of Air Force funds or the consumption of Air Force property that results from deficient practices, systems controls, or decisions.  The term also includes improper practices not involving prosecutable fraud.  