Administrative Change to AFPD 51-11, Coordination of Remedies for Fraud and Corruption Related to Air Force Procurement Matters OPR:  SAF/GC Reference in Attachment 1, Terms, Significant Procurement Fraud Cases, Bullet 1, $100,000 is hereby changed to $500,000.  26 May 2017 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 51-11 8 SEPTEMBER 2016 Law COORDINATION OF REMEDIES FOR FRAUD AND CORRUPTION RELATED TO AIR FORCE PROCUREMENT MATTERS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/GCR  Supersedes:  AFPD 51-11, 21 October 1994  Certified by: SAF/GC  (Hon. Gordon O. Tanner) Pages: 4    This publication implements DoD Directive 5505.5, Implementation of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies  Act,  DoD  Directive  5405.2,  Release  of  Official  Information  in  Litigation  and Testimony  by  DoD  Personnel  as  Witnesses,  and  DoD  Instruction  7050.05,  Coordination  of Remedies  for  Fraud  and  Corruption  Related  to  Procurement  Activities.    It  applies  to  all  Air Force personnel including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional  chain of command. Ensure that all  records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  revises  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  51-11,  Coordination  of  Remedies  for  Fraud and Corruption Related to Air Force Procurement Matters, by making administrative and related updates,  ensuring  conformance  to  DoDI  7050.05,  Coordination  of  Remedies  for  Fraud  and Corruption  Related  to  Procurement  Activities,  May  12,  2014,  and  establishing  the  Fraud Remedies Program as a learning organization. 2 AFPD51-11  8 SEPTEMBER 2016 1.  Overview.  The Air Force must detect and correct instances of procurement fraud to maintain operational  readiness,  recoup  lost  financial  resources,  restore  public  confidence  in  Air  Force acquisitions, and prevent fraudulent conduct from occurring in the future. 2.  Policy.  The Air Force will aggressively pursue all significant procurement fraud cases which affect  Air  Force  interests,  and  will  ensure  that  appropriate  criminal,  civil,  contractual,  and administrative  remedies  are  taken  in  a  coordinated,  expeditious  manner.    The  Air  Force  will ensure  monies  lost  to  procurement  fraud  will  be  recovered  for  use  by  affected  Air  Force programs to the extent allowable by law. 3.  Responsibilities and Authorities. 3.1.  The  Office  of  the  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC)  establishes  policy  and  serves  as  the central authority for the Air Force in monitoring and coordinating remedies in all significant procurement  fraud  cases.    This  authority  is  further  delegated  to  SAF/GCR  (Contractor Responsibility). 3.1.1.  SAF/GCR  is  responsible  for  establishing  the  Fraud  Remedies  Program  as  an  Air Force  wide  learning  organization,  with  a  robust  knowledge  management  infrastructure and procedures that enable the identification and distribution of best practices and lessons learned. 3.2.  The Judge Advocate General’s Corps (TJAG) is responsible for most of the Air Force’s installation level legal support as well as providing Air Force wide legal services through the Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA). 3.3.  Major  command  (MAJCOM),  field  operating  agency  (FOA),  and  direct  reporting  unit (DRU)  commanders  will  facilitate  the  pursuit  of  appropriate  remedies  in  all  cases  of significant procurement fraud involving resources under their command or control. 3.4.  Installation commanders will ensure preparation of acceptable remedies plans reflecting the pursuit of appropriate criminal, civil, contractual, and administrative remedies in all cases of significant procurement fraud involving their installations or facilities. 3.5.  The Air Force Office of Special  Investigations (AFOSI)  will investigate allegations of misconduct  in  each  significant  procurement  fraud  case  and  support  SAF/GC,  the  Judge Advocate  General’s  Corps,  MAJCOM,  FOA  and  DRU  commanders,  and  installation commanders  in  the  pursuit  of  applicable  criminal,  civil,  contractual,  and  administrative remedies.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force AFPD51-11  8 SEPTEMBER 2016 3 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD 5405.2, Release of Official Information in Litigation and Testimony by DoD Personnel as Witnesses DoDI 7050.05, Coordination of Remedies for Fraud and Corruption Related to Procurement Activities DoDI 5505.5, Coordination of Remedies for Fraud and Corruption Related to Procurement Activities AFMAN 37-130, Records Disposition Schedule AFI 51-1101, The Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DRU—Direct Reporting Unit FOA—Field Operating Agency MAJCOM—Major Command RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF/GC—Office of the General Counsel SAF/GCR—Office of the General Counsel Contractor Responsibility TJAG—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps 4 Terms AFPD51-11  8 SEPTEMBER 2016 Fraud—Any  intentional  deception  by  an  individual,  corporation,  partnership,  or  other  entity which seeks to unlawfully deprive the Air Force of something of value or to secure from the Air Force a benefit, privilege, allowance, or consideration for which there is no entitlement. Installation—An  air  Force  Base,  Station,  Center,  or  other  fixed  location  as  designated  by  a MAJCOM,  FOA,  or  DRU.    This  definition  includes  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  product centers. Remedies—Criminal,  civil, contractual and administrative actions that should  be initiated by  a commander  or  official  having  responsibility  over  a  matter  central  to  a  significant  procurement fraud  case  in  order  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Air  Force  and  to  deter  future  incidents  of fraudulent conduct. Remedies  Plans—Comprehensive,  evolving  plans  prepared  in  accordance  with  AFI  51-1101, The  Air  Force  Procurement  Fraud  Remedies  Program,  for  pursuing  all  applicable  remedies  in significant  procurement  fraud  cases.    These  plans  are  updated  periodically  to  report  new information and provide the status and success of all applicable remedies. Significant  Procurement  Fraud  Cases—Alleged  or  confirmed  instances  of  criminal  or  civil misconduct by a government contractor or individual which satisfy one or more of the following criteria:     All procurement-related fraud cases which involve an alleged or actual loss to the Air Force of $100,000 or more. All  corruption  cases  related  to  the  Air  Force  procurement  process,  regardless  of the  dollar  amount  of  loss  involved.    Corruption  includes  such  fraudulent  acts  as conflict of interest; the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of bribes, gratuities, kickbacks,  or  commissions;  the  unauthorized  disclosure  of  procurement-related information; and collusion, bid rigging, price-fixing, or other antitrust violations. All  Air  Force  cases  involving  alleged  or  proven  defective  products  or  product substitution  where  the  nature  of  the  product  defect  or  substitution  presents  a serious hazard to health, safety, or operational readiness, regardless of the dollar amount of loss involved. All  cases  in  which  there  is  a  significant  Air  Force  interest  as  determined  by SAF/GC.    Such  cases  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  those  involving  a congressional inquire or substantial media attention.  