BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 38-41 JUNE 1998Manpower and OrganizationTHE INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENTTHROUGH EMPLOYEE AWARENESS (IDEA)PROGRAMNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ USAF/XPMR (Ms Kathryn Nealy) Supersedes AFPD 38-4, 12 March 1993. Certified by: HQ USAF/XPM(Brig Gen Larry W. Northington)Pages: 6Distribution: FThe Air Force Innovative Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program encourages cre-ative thinking and makes innovative ideas (especially those fostering continuous process improvement,economies, and productivity) available to benefit the Air Force.  The Air Force provides a customer-ori-ented program that responds to individuals, groups, or teams with timely responses on the disposition oftheir ideas.  The following policies provide for collecting, evaluating, and recognizing submitters for theirideas.  This directive applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel and members of the U.S. AirForce Reserve and Air National Guard.  It implements Department of Defense (DoD) Manual 1400.25-M,DoD Civilian Personnel Manual, Subchapter 451, Awards, December 1996.  Instructions implementingthis policy are outlined in  AFI 38-401, Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness(IDEA) Program.SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis revision changes the name of the program and creates the acronym IDEA (title page); updatesresponsibilities and authorities (paragraph 1.); and revises and redefines all metrics (Attachment 1).1. Responsibilities and Authorities:  1.1. The Air Force implements approved ideas and recognizes approved contributions with the appro-priate cash or noncash award.1.2. HQ USAF/XPMR develops policy and evaluates the IDEA Program.1.3. AFCQMI/MQDC develops and establishes the IDEA Program procedures.1.4. Commanders, at all levels, direct the IDEA Program within their organizations.22. Terms Explained:AFPD38-4   1 JUNE 19982.1. Innovative Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program. A customer-ori-ented program that allows for submission, evaluation, and cash or noncash recognition for approved ideas and also provides for timely responses to individuals, groups or teams on the disposition of ideas.   2.2. Innovative Ideas. Ideas, inventions, patents, or scientific achievements.2.3. Evaluation Process. The procedure to approve or disapprove the idea.2.4. Approved Ideas. Ideas that management accepts with the intent to implement.2.5. Disposition of Ideas. The receipt, evaluation, and recognition of ideas.  3. Metrics.  Attachment 1 displays sample metrics used to evaluate the program. F. WHITTEN PETERSActing Secretary of the Air ForceAFPD38-4   1 JUNE 19983MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICYAttachment 1 A1.1. Compliance with the IDEA Program policy will be assessed by taking measurements in five areas:Overall Processing Time, Participation Rate, Submission Rate, Approval Rate, and Rate of Return.  Themetrics display trends relating to improvement goals.  Data are displayed on a quarterly frequency.  Sep-arate improvement process ideas, scientific achievements, and patents/ inventions will be included in met-rics only after approval.A1.1.1. Overall Processing Time.  The time from date of submission through date of closure.   Forcash awards, closure is the date that award documentation is forwarded to the Finance Office for pay-ment (Figure A1.1.).A1.1.2. Participation Rate.  The percentage of Air Force population submitting one or more ideasduring the reporting period (Figure A1.2.).  To arrive at the percentage, calculate the total number ofunique social security numbers (SSN) submitted divided by the Air Force strength.A1.1.3. Submission Rate.  The percentage of ideas submitted (Figure A1.3.). To arrive at the per-centage, calculate the total number of submissions divided by the Air Force strength.  A1.1.4. Approval Rate.  The percentage of ideas approved (Figure A1.4.).  To arrive at the percent-age, divide the total number of submissions approved by the sum of the total number of eligible sub-missions received in reporting period, plus ideas carried over from previous reporting period, minusopen submissions pending evaluations.A1.1.5. Rate of Return.  The comparison of tangible savings to the total dollars awarded (FigureA1.5.). To compare, calculate the total dollar savings divided by the total award dollars paid. 4AFPD38-4   1 JUNE 1998Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Overall Processing Time.Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Participation Rate.AFPD38-4   1 JUNE 1998Figure A1.3. Sample Metric of Submission Rate.5Figure A1.4. Sample Metric of Approval Rate.6AFPD38-4   1 JUNE 1998Figure A1.5. Sample Metric of Rate of Return.