BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 63-1 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 20-1  3 JUNE 2016 Acquisition / Logistics INTEGRATED LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT    COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/AQ  Supersedes:  AFPD 63-1/20-1, 3 July 2012; AFPD 63-7, 17 May 1993  Certified by: SAF/AQ  (Ms Darlene Costello) Pages: 10 This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  provides  an  Air  Force  acquisition  and  sustainment Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM) framework for Air Force systems, subsystems, end items,  services,  and  activities  (for  the  purpose  of  this  publication  referred  to  as  programs throughout this document).  It applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel; members of  the  Air  Force  Reserve;  members  of  the  Air  National  Guard;  and  other  individuals  or organizations  as  required  by  binding  agreement  or  obligation  with  the  Department  of  the  Air Force. This  AFPD  implements  Department  of  Defense  Directives  (DoDDs)  2040.3,  End  Use Certificates  (EUCs);  DoDD  3000.09,  Autonomy  in  Weapon  Systems;  DoDD  3020.49, Orchestrating,  Synchronizing,  and Integrating  Program  Management  of  Contingency Acquisition Planning and Its Operational Execution; DoDD 4120.11, Standardization of Mobile Electric Power (MEP) Generating Sources; DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel; DoDD 4275.5, Acquisition and Management of Industrial Resources; DoDD 4400.01, Defense Production  Act  Programs;  DoDD  5000.01,  The  Defense  Acquisition  System;  DoDD  5000.52, Defense  Acquisition,  Technology,  and  Logistics  Workforce  Education,  Training,  and  Career Development Program; DoDD 5134.09, Missile Defense Agency (MDA); DoDD 5200.47E, Anti-Tamper (AT). This AFPD interfaces with and is consistent with DoDD 3150.1, Joint DoD-DOE Nuclear Weapon Life-Cycle Activities and AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  If there is any conflicting policy between this AFPD and applicable Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff issuances or Department of Defense (DoD) issuances, the latter shall take precedence.  AFPD 2 AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 63-1/20-1 provides the flexibility required for today’s Air Force and must be used in conjunction with AFPD 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, and AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation.  This  AFPD  cannot  be  supplemented.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field to the  Assistant the  Air  Force,  Acquisition  Management  Policy  (SAF/AQXS)  workflow Secretary  of (usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqxs-policy-workflow@mail.mil) appropriate channels.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records  Disposition  Schedule  in  the  Air  Force Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS).    For  nuclear  systems  or  related components, ensure the appropriate nuclear related regulations are applied. through SUMMARY OF CHANGES The majority of this AFPD’s content remains the same. The revision updates format to comply with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, implements new DoD Directives, and reflects Headquarters Air Force organizational changes and updated roles and responsibilities. 1.  Overview/Background.  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management  (ILCM)  is  the  seamless governance,  using  transparent  processes,  that  integrates  all  aspects  of  infrastructure,  resource management,  and  business  systems  necessary  for  the  successful  acquisition  execution (requirements  identification,  development,  testing,  fielding,  sustainment,  and  disposal)  of systems, subsystems, end items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs. 1.1.  By executing the ILCM approach, the Air Force promotes the development, protection, and  integration  of  maintainable  and  reliable  technology  throughout  the  life  cycle  that advances state of the art warfighter capabilities critical to continued superiority in air, space, and cyberspace. 1.2.  An ILCM approach improves Air Force capabilities by ensuring acquisition efficiency; ensuring robust technical planning and risk management as well as adequate developmental and  operational  testing;  optimizing  operations  and  sustainment  of  fielded  capabilities; minimizing the logistics footprint; and reducing life cycle costs. 2.  Policy. 2.1.  ILCM  Applicability.    ILCM  shall  be  applied  to  Air  Force  acquisition  programs throughout  their  life  cycle  in  support  of  warfighter  capability  planning  and  validated operational requirements.  “Program” includes: systems, subsystems, end items, or activities identified  as  Acquisition  Category  (ACAT)  programs  or  pre-ACAT  programs,  weapon systems  designated  in  AFPD  10-9,  Lead  Command  Designation  and  Responsibilities  for Weapon  Systems,  systems—to  include  Defense  Business  Systems  (DBS)—in  sustainment, and services.  Note: ACAT criteria are listed in DoDI 5000.02. 2.2.  Governance.  All acquisition programs shall have a clear acquisition chain of authority.  This chain of authority applies the efficient use of Air Force resources to program execution throughout  the  life  cycle.    ILCM  stakeholders  advise  and  assist  the  acquisition  chain  of authority with its program execution responsibilities. AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 3 2.2.1.  An ACAT program’s acquisition chain of authority is dependent upon Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) delegation.  All acquisition management responsibilities and authorities  for  ACAT  programs  flow  directly  from  the  Defense  Acquisition  Executive (DAE)/Service Acquisition Executive (SAE) to the Program Executive Officer (PEO) to the accountable Program Manager (PM). 2.2.2.  For the acquisition of services, the Air Force acquisition chain of authority starts with  the  SAE  and  is  delegated  to  the  Services  Designated  Official  depending  on  the dollar threshold of the services being acquired. 2.3.  ILCM Execution.  ILCM execution requires standard processes and business practices to  initiate,  govern,  and/or  regulate  actions  within  the  ILCM  enterprise.    As  such,  the acquisition chain of authority shall: 2.3.1.  Execute an acquisition program in response to a validated capability need vetted   through an approved requirements process. 2.3.2.  Establish an MDA for program execution.  The MDA has the authority to: approve entry  of  a  program  into  the  next  phase  of  the  life  cycle  process,  tailor  the  program  to maximize efficient use of limited resources, and certify milestone criteria; be accountable for  program  cost,  schedule,  and  performance  reporting  to  higher  authority,  including Congressional  reporting;  and  have  authority  over  all  matters  impacting  programmatic execution except when statutory or regulatory authority resides elsewhere for a specific requirement. 2.3.3.  Ensure  the  Air  Force  Chief  of  Staff  concurs  with  the  cost,  schedule,  technical feasibility,  and  performance  trade-offs  that  have  been  made  with  regard  to  a  major defense acquisition program prior to specific decision points. 2.3.4.  Authorize  entry  into  the  Defense  Acquisition  System  at  an  appropriate  point, consistent  with  phase-specific  entrance  criteria  and  statutory/regulatory  requirements following completion of or in concert with a Materiel Development Decision as approved by the MDA. 2.3.5.  Establish  a  PM  throughout  the  life  cycle.    The  PM  shall  have  the  authority  to accomplish program objectives for development, test, production, fielding, sustainment, and disposal to meet user operational needs.  The PM shall be accountable to the MDA or equivalent authority for program cost, schedule, and performance for the life cycle of the program. 2.3.6.  Participate  in  joint  and  international  cooperative  research,  development,  and programs  that  support  the  best  interest  of  the  United  States  and  fulfill  valid  Air  Force requirements. 2.3.7.  Emphasize conformance to national and international standards for safe access to global airspace, space, and cyberspace. 2.3.8.  Apply  standard  systems  engineering  processes  and  practices  to  ensure  the integrity,  mission  assurance,  operational  safety,  suitability,  and  effectiveness  of  each system  throughout  the  life  cycle  from  concept  development  through  disposal.    It  shall also apply integrity programs to weapon systems. 4 AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 2.3.9.  Develop and document test planning, execution, and level of support required for the system’s life cycle. 2.3.10.  Document requirements, plans, and strategies to apply comprehensive acquisition security  throughout  the  life  cycle  of  the  system  to  include  cybersecurity,  program protection, anti-tamper, and supply chain risk management. 2.3.11.  Ensure  product  support  is  a  continuous  and  collaborative  set  of  activities  that establishes  and  maintains  readiness  and  the  operational  capability  and  availability  of  a system, subsystem, or end item throughout its life cycle.  Product support implementation shall validate and refine the system sustainment objectives and outcomes in preparation for the Operations and Sustainment phase. 2.3.12.  Ensure  government-owned  segments  of  the  industrial  base  do  not  exceed  the minimal assets necessary to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs. 2.3.13.  Meet all statutory requirements that ensure the nation’s industrial resources are available to support national security needs with respect to Air Force programs. 2.3.14.  Comply with statutes, executive orders, DoD issuances, Air Force publications, Federal  Acquisition  Regulation,  Defense  Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  Supplement, and Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement. 3.  Roles and Responsibilities.  Organizational roles and responsibilities include: 3.1.  Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA).  Serves as the Air Force Senior Agency Official and Security Program Executive with oversight responsibility for the Air Force Security Enterprise.  Serves as the Air Force Special Access Program (SAP) Central Office and the authorizing official for Air Force SAP systems.  Provides executive oversight  and  program  management  for  the  Information  Security,  Industrial  Security, Personnel Security, Nuclear Information Security, and Air Force Insider Threat programs. 3.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ).  Executes all Service Acquisition Executive (referred to in DoD policy as Component Acquisition Executive) and Senior  Procurement  Executive  responsibilities  and  authorities  outlined  in  statute  and regulation.    Responsible  for  all  science  and  technology,  acquisition,  contracting,  systems engineering,  supply  chain  management,  maintenance  of  military  materiel,  and  product support  policy,  guidance,  and  oversight.    Ensures  development  and  maintenance  of  skills required  for  the  acquisition  workforce.    Chairs  the  ILCM  Executive  Forum  to  provide  an acquisition enterprise governance framework for the integrated life cycle construct. 3.3.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Financial  Management  and  Comptroller (SAF/FM).    Responsible  for  directing  and  managing  all  comptroller  and  financial management functions,  activities, and operations of the Air Force.  Provides direction and guidance for all matters pertaining to the programming, formulation, review, and execution of  plans,  allocation  of  expenditures,  and  collection  of  all  funds  administered  by  the  Air Force.  Responsible  for  policies  and  programs  relative  to:  preparing  program  and  budget estimates; managing and overseeing the programming and financial aspects of the Planning, Programming,  Budgeting,  and  Execution  process;  managing  economic  and  business  case analyses; and managing and overseeing cost estimating, cost analysis, and cost reporting. AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 5 3.4.  Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA).  Responsible for supporting PMs in their preparation and execution of Foreign Military Sales cases as part of security cooperation programs. 3.5.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Installations,  Environment  and  Energy (SAF/IE).  Develops strategic level guidance and policy for matters pertaining to installations environment, safety, infrastructure, and energy. 3.6.  Deputy Under Secretary of The Air Force, Management and Deputy Chief Management Officer (SAF/MG).  Ensures that defense business systems accountability and modernization is in compliance with 10 United States Code §2222.  Responsible for ensuring requirements for business systems and processes are as streamlined and efficient as practicable. 3.7.  Director, Office of Small Business Programs, (SAF/SB).  Responsible for developing, implementing, overseeing, and executing small business policy and enterprise management of  the  Air  Forces’  Small  Business  Programs.  Ensures  future  competition;  develops  the industrial  base;  and  pursues  maximum  practicable  opportunities  for  small  business  prime contract  and  subcontracting  opportunities.    Advises  leadership  on  industrial  capability  and conducts education and outreach. 3.8.  Chief  of  Safety  (AF/SE).    Responsible  for:  the  formation  of  nuclear  surety  policy, munitions  safety  policy,  flight  safety  policy,  space  safety  policy,  occupational  safety,  and system safety policy; the execution of plans; and the establishment of programs to implement Air Force safety policies and plans.  Provides safety recommendations and feedback into the system design process through trends/issues identified during mishap investigations. 3.9.  Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE).  Provides guidance, direction and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of Test and Evaluation (T&E) plans, policies, programs, and budgets.  Manages the Air Force test infrastructure by ensuring adequate T&E facilities, resources, and expertise are available to support system life cycle T&E activities. 3.10.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2).  Serves as the lead for Air Force ISR to include planning, programming,  policy,  guidance,  intelligence  force  development,  and  oversight  for  all  Air Force  components  of  the  ISR  functional  community.    Provides  policy,  guidance  and oversight  for  acquisition  intelligence  to  include,  but  not  limited  to,  threat  and  intelligence supportability  (such  as  intelligence  mission  data,  doctrine,  organization,  training,  materiel, leadership  and  education,  personnel,  and  facilities)  inputs  to  requirements,  capabilities planning, and life cycle acquisition processes. 3.11.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Operations  (AF/A3).    Responsible  for  providing  policy, guidance, and oversight for air, space, and cyberspace operations, training, and sourcing of Air Force capabilities and personnel to support joint operations, and representing Air Force operations to DoD and other government agencies. 3.12.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4).  Issues policy implementation guidance to Air Force logistics, and Agile Combat Support activities.  Responsible  for  materiel  necessary  to  equip,  operate,  maintain,  and  support  military activities.  Organizes, trains, and equips personnel for all facets of logistics, civil engineering, and force protection programs for the Air Force. 6 AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 3.13.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Requirements (AF/A5/8).  Responsible for  developing  and  managing  the  process  for  strategy  development,  long-range  strategic planning,  and  resource  allocation.    Serves  as  the  Headquarters  Air  Force  (HAF)  lead  for developing,  validating,  approving,  and  prioritizing  operational  capability  requirements; accomplishing  capability  and  modification  prioritization  and  initial  planning  through  all acquisition  milestones.  Develops  and  submits  Air  Force  Plan  to  Program  Guidance  to provide direction on Air Force Program Objective Memorandum development.  Responsible for the development of an enterprise affordability assessment (for ACAT I and IA programs) determined  by  comparing  life  cycle  cost  estimates  against  future  Air  Force  resource allocations. 3.14.  Chief,  Information  Dominance  and  Chief  Information  Officer  (SAF/CIO  A6).   Responsible for cyberspace/Information Technology (IT) policies and concepts for the Air Force.  Responsible for development and reporting of the Air Force IT Budget.  Responsible for developing enterprise-level architecture for the Air Force.  Monitors compliance with Air Force policy on Clinger-Cohen Act, DBS investment certification, and the Capital Planning and  Investment  Control  process.    Responsible  for  policies  and  procedures  of  IT/National Security  Systems  (NSS) interoperability  and  supportability  risk  assessments,  and interoperability  certification  testing  for  Air  Force  IT/NSS  programs.    Ensures  that  IT/NSS accountability and modernization is in compliance with 10 Unites States Code §2222. 3.15.  Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10).    Responsible  for  advocating  for  requirements,  acquisition,  programming,  and budgeting processes for nuclear and global strike capabilities. 3.16.  Implementing  Commands.    Support  the  MDAs  and  PMs  by  providing  technical assistance,  infrastructure,  manpower,  test  capabilities,  laboratory  support,  professional education,  training  and  development,  and  management  tools.    Implementing  Commands include Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), and Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC). 4.  Tailoring and Waivers. 4.1.  If required, the acquisition chain of authority tailors to streamline the ILCM processes and documentation commensurate with current and projected risk.  For ACAT ID and ACAT IAM  programs,  Air  Force  implementation  guidance  may  be  tailored  to  support  DAE direction.    The  MDA  cannot  waive  functional  requirements  which  reside  outside  MDA authority. 4.2.  Where  there  is  a  clear  conflict  between  approved  courses  of  action  and  where  DoD policy/guidance does not allow for tailoring of process, regardless of ACAT level, SAF/AQ shall request waivers from the appropriate DoD office.  If a waiver is required, the waiver request  should  be  submitted  to  the  publication  OPR  for  appropriate  staffing  and  approval among HAF functional authorities.  Where the course of action, as approved and documented through the ILCM chain of authority, conflicts with an AFPD, the PM shall submit a request for a waiver to the certifying authority for the publication, who, in turn, obtains Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) approval for the waiver, if warranted.  Where the course of action, as approved  and  documented  through  the  ILCM  chain  of  authority,  conflicts  with  Air  Force Departmental directive issuances other than AFPDs, the PM shall submit a notification via memorandum to the publication OPR for action.  The OPR takes appropriate action to either AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 7 provide  direction  to  comply  with  policy,  obtain  a  waiver  to  requirements,  or  to  initiate changes to publications as appropriate to resolve the conflict IAW AFI 33-360.  Resolution of conflicts between Air Force issuances is resolved by the appropriate HAF functional.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force 8 AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 Attachment 1 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION References DoDD 2040.3, End Use Certificates (EUCs), 14 November 1991 DoDD 3000.09 Autonomy in Weapon Systems, 21 November 2012 DoDD 3020.49, Orchestrating, Synchronizing, and Integrating Program Management of Contingency Acquisition Planning and Its Operational Execution, 24 March 2009 DoDD 3150.1, Joint DoD-DOE Nuclear Weapon Life-Cycle Activities, 26 August 2002 DoDD 4120.11, Standardization of Mobile Electric Power (MEP) Generating Sources, 13 April 2004 DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 March 2004 DoDD 4275.5, Acquisition and Management of Industrial Resources, 15 March 2005 DoDD 4400.01, Defense Production Act Programs, 12 October 2001 DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003 DoDD 5000.52, Defense Acquisition, Technology and Logistics Workforce Education, Training and Career Development Program, 12 January 2005 DoDD 5000.71, Rapid Fulfillment of Combatant Commander Urgent Operational Needs, 24 August 2012 DoDD 5134.09, Missile Defense Agency (MDA), 17 September 2009 DoDD 5200.47E, Anti-Tamper (AT), 4 September 2015 DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 7 January 2015 AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 AFPD 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March 2007 AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011 AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation, 3 June 2014 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF FORM 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 9 Abbreviations and Acronyms ACAT—Acquisition Category AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFSPC—Air Force Space Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AML—Acquisition Master List BES—Budget Estimate Submission CIO—Chief Information Officer DAE—Defense Acquisition Executive DBS—Defense Business System DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction HAF—Headquarters Air Force ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance IT—Information Technology MDA—Milestone Decision Authority NSS—National Security Systems O&S—Operations and Sustainment PB—President’s Budget PEO—Program Executive Officer PM—Program Manager SAE—Service Acquisition Executive SAF—Office of the Secretary of the Air Force SAP—Special Access Program SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force T&E—Test and Evaluation Terms Acquisition—the  conceptualization, test,  contracting, production, fielding, deployment, sustainment, and disposal of a directed and funded effort that provides a new, improved, or continued materiel, weapon, information system, logistics support, or service capability in response to an approved need. initiation,  design,  development, 10 AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1  3 JUNE 2016 Agile  Combat  Support—the  ability  to  support  the  objectives  of  a  Joint  Force  Commander through improved responsiveness, deployability, and sustainability of the air and space forces. Enterprise—the  related  activities  performed  for  a  common  purpose  including  all  activities, whether performed in one or more functional or organizational units. Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management—the seamless governance, transparency, and integration of  all  aspects  of  infrastructure,  resource  management,  and  business  systems  necessary  for successful  development,  test,  production,  fielding,  sustainment,  and  disposal  of  systems, subsystems, end items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs. Integrated Life Cycle Management Stakeholders—the organizations and personnel involved with all aspects of ILCM. Life Cycle—the span of time associated with a system, subsystem, or end item that begins with the  conception  and  initial  development  of  the  requirement,  continues  through  development,  fielding, sustainment, until the time it is either consumed in use or disposed of as being excess to all known materiel requirements. Milestone  Decision  Authority  (MDA)—the  designated  individual  (per  DoDD  5000.01)  with overall responsibility for a program.  The MDA shall have the authority to approve entry of an acquisition program into the next phase of the acquisition process and shall be accountable for cost, schedule, and performance reporting to higher authority, including Congressional reporting. Program  Executive  Officer—the to  executive  management  and supervision of a portfolio of mission-related ACAT and selected programs.  The PEO shall be chartered by and is accountable to the SAE. Program Manager—the designated individual (per DoDD 5000.01) with responsibility for and authority  to  accomplish  program  objectives  for  development,  production,  and  sustainment  to meet the user’s operational needs. The PM for programs shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness.  ACAT I and ACAT II PMs shall be approved by the SAE and the PEO.  Delegated ACAT II and III PMs shall be approved by the PEO. Sustainment—the  continuing  materiel  support  which  consists  of  the  planning,  programming, and  execution  of  a  logistics  support  strategy  for  a  system,  subsystem,  or  major  end  item  to maintain operational capabilities from system fielding through disposal. Systems Engineering—an interdisciplinary approach encompassing the entire technical effort to evolve and verify an integrated and total life cycle balanced set of system, people, and process solutions that satisfy customer needs. Systems engineering is the integrating mechanism across the  technical  and  analytical  efforts  related  to  the  development,  manufacturing,  verification, deployment, operations, support, and disposal of and user training for systems and their life cycle processes.  Systems  engineering  develops  technical  information  to  support  the  program management decision-making process.  individual  dedicated 