BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 13-5 29 JUNE 2017 Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control AIR FORCE NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  AF/A10P  Supersedes:  AFPD 13-5, 6 July 2011  Certified by: HQ USAF/A10  (Lt Gen Jack Weinstein) Pages: 33 This  Directive  implements  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  3150.01,  Joint  DoD-Department  Of  Energy/National  Nuclear  Security  Administration  (DoD-DOE/NNSA)  Nuclear Weapon  Life-Cycle  Activities,  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI)  S-3730.01,  Nuclear Command,  Control,  and  Communications  (NC3)  System,  DoDI  5030.55,  DoD  Procedures  for Joint DoD-DOE Nuclear Weapons Life-Cycle Activities, DoDI 5210.42, DoD Nuclear Weapons Personnel  Reliability  Assurance,  DoDD  S-5210.81,  United  States  Nuclear  Weapons  Command and Control, Safety and Security.  This Directive is consistent with DoDD 2060.02, Department of Defense Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy, DoDI 2060.03, Application of the National Security Exclusion to the Agreements Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America,  DoDD  2060.1,  Implementation  of,  and  Compliance  with,  Arms  Control  Agreements, DoDI  3150.09,  The  Chemical,  Biological,  Radiological  and  Nuclear  (CBRN)  Survivability Policy,  DoDD  S-3710.01,  (U)  National  Leadership  Command  Capability  (NLCC),  DoDD 4500.54E,  DoD  Foreign  Clearance  Program (FCP),  DoDD  5160.05E,  Roles  and Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological Defense (CBD) Program (CBDP), and  DoDI  5210.88,  Security  Standards  for  Safeguarding  Biological  Select  Agents  and  Toxins (BSAT).    This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  establishes  Air  Force  policy  for  the management of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise and Nuclear Operations.  This Directive applies to  all  Regular  Air  Force  (RegAF),  Air  National  Guard  of  the  United  States  (U.S.),  Reserve, Department of the Air Force civilian personnel, and contractors tasked with the responsibility to operate,  maintain,  control,  secure,  inspect,  manage,  and  account  for  nuclear  equipment  and accomplish nuclear-related tasks.  This Directive assigns specific responsibilities and establishes supported  and  supporting  relationships  among  Air  Force  organizations  for  the  efficient  and 2 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 effective  operation  of  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise.    Refer  recommended  changes  and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  (IAW)  Air  Force Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air  Force  Records Information  Management  System  Records  Disposition  Schedule.    This  Directive  may  not  be supplemented. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include  revising  and  adding  organizational  responsibilities,  updating  definitions  of  Air  Force Nuclear Operations and Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, and making changes required by Program Action  Directive  (PAD)  D16-01,  Centralized  Management  of  the  Nuclear  Enterprise,  and  10 United States Code (USC) § 8040, Oversight of Nuclear Deterrence Mission.  1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.  Air Force Nuclear Operations .................................................................................   Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. .................................................................................   Air Force Nuclear Enterprise Policy. ......................................................................   Component Functions of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. ..................................   Roles and Responsibilities. .....................................................................................   Implementing Publications. ....................................................................................  Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 2— AIR FORCE NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE GOVERNING BODIES   2 2 2 3 4 24 25 32  1.  Air Force Nuclear Operations  .  Nuclear operations are that portion of the range of military operations  pertaining  to  nuclear  weapons  and  includes  deterrence,  crisis  response,  strike, assessment,  and  return  to  stability.    Air  Force  nuclear  operations  comprise  weapons,  weapon delivery systems, and forces that conduct nuclear command and control (NC2); operate, sustain, maintain,  and  secure  nuclear  weapons;  ensure  nuclear  weapons  surety  across  the  stockpile-to-target sequence (STS); and support the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise as a whole. 2.  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise.  The  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  consists  of  the  people, organizations, processes, procedures, and systems conducting, executing, and supporting nuclear operations.    It  includes  Air  Force  forces  and  organizations  responsible  for  nuclear  policy  and guidance. 3.  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  Policy.  At  a  Service  level,  the  Air  Force  organizes,  trains, and equips nuclear forces for day-to-day capabilities to support Combatant Commander (CCDR) requirements.  At the national level, Air Force nuclear operations support national security goals of  deterring  adversaries  from  attacking  the  U.S.  and  its  interests  with  nuclear  weapons,  other AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 3 WMD,  or  large-scale  conflict;  support  non-proliferation  efforts;  assuring  allies  and  partners  of our  capability  to  protect  them;  and  defeating  adversaries.    To  provide  a  credible  nuclear capability, the Air Force will: 3.1.  Present  forces  to  CCDRs  to  assure  allies  and  partners,  deter  adversaries,  extend deterrence on behalf of allies and partners, and conduct nuclear operations. 3.2.  Organize,  train,  and  equip  those  personnel,  weapons  systems  (i.e.,  intercontinental ballistic  missiles  (ICBM),  dual  capable  heavy  bombers,  dual  capable  fighters,  and  NC3), support and reconnaissance/surveillance  assets,  and  space,  missile  warning,  and  communications systems),  and  support  infrastructure  (e.g.,  wing  command  posts  and  mobile  support  teams) required to conduct nuclear operations. command tanker, airlift, and control (C2), forces (e.g., 3.2.1.  Conduct  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable  nuclear  operations  to  support U.S. national security objectives and U.S. Government international agreements. 3.2.2.  Implement  nuclear  weapons  surety  policies,  procedures,  controls,  and  actions  to ensure  there  are  no  nuclear  weapon  accidents,  incidents,  unauthorized  detonations,  or degradation of weapon effectiveness during its STS. 3.2.3.  Ensure weapon security objectives satisfy mission requirements. 3.2.4.  Promote  weapon  safety,  security,  and  reliability  needed  to  sustain  nuclear  force capabilities over the long term. 3.2.5.  Promote  a  culture  of  accountability,  self-assessment,  and  uncompromising performance.    Within  the  context  of  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise,  accountability  is the  acknowledgment  and  assumption  of  responsibility  for  nuclear-related  actions, decisions,  and  policies  and  includes  authority,  administration,  and  implementation.  Accountability  encompasses  the  obligation  to  report,  consistent  with  existing  Air  Force policies  and to  appropriate  authorities  for  resulting consequences. instructions,  and  answer 3.3.  Advocate  for  the  necessary  investments  and  resources  to  sustain,  modernize,  and recapitalize nuclear forces and supporting infrastructure. 4.  Component Functions of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 4.1.  Human Capital Development.  The Air Force provides combat capabilities and technical expertise  for  the  planning,  employment,  and  execution  of  the  nuclear  mission  on  behalf  of CCDRs.    These  trained,  certified,  and  combat-ready  forces  conduct  nuclear  operations, maintenance,  sustainment,  security,  and  support  functions.   Through  Service-wide development of the force via training, education, assignments, exercises, and evaluations, the Air  Force  sustains  nuclear  expertise  and  a  culture  of  excellence  throughout  the  nuclear mission.    To  successfully  execute  the  nuclear  mission  and  maintain  nuclear  surety,  the  Air Force  will  fill  key  leadership  positions  of  high-level  responsibility  with  personnel appropriately trained and qualified in the nuclear mission. 4.2.  NC3.  Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) is  the Service’s lead command for Air  Force  specific  NC3  communications  systems  and  components  as  well  as  the  lead command  for  the  Air  Force  NC3  weapon  system  IAW  AFPD  10-9,  Lead  Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, through which the President exercises 4 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 NC2.  AFGSC is the supported major command (MAJCOM) for NC3; all other MAJCOMs are  supporting  for  oversight,  planning,  programming,  budgeting,  and  execution  (PPBE), readiness,  resources,  sustainment,  requirements  development,  and  assessments.    NC3 provides the capability through which Presidential authority for employment and termination of  nuclear  weapons  operations  is  exercised  and  through  which  operational  C2  over  U.S. nuclear  forces  is  conducted.    Air  Force  Instruction  (AFI)  13-550,  Air  Force  Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications, provides a description of NC3 functions.  Of note, the Air Force NC3 weapon system does not incorporate all NC3 systems, and AFGSC does not own all Air Force NC3 systems. 4.3.  Stockpile  Management.    The  Air  Force  maintains  an  inventory  of  nuclear  weapons  to fulfill  operational  requirements.   Weapons  reliability  depends  on  sustainment  and surveillance  activities.    Sustainment  programs  include  alterations,  modifications,  life extension  programs,  and  limited  life  component  exchanges.    Surveillance  involves  periodic dismantlement  and  inspection  of  deployed  weapons  to  uncover  any  defects.    The combination  of  trained  personnel,  inspections,  the  proper  equipment,  and  facilities  all  help ensure  nuclear  weapons  remain  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable.    Stockpile management  requires  planning  and  budgeting  for  nuclear  weapon  sustainment  and surveillance efforts in order to satisfy national security objectives. 4.4.  Nuclear  Materiel  Management  (NMM).    Activities  associated  with  Air  Force  Materiel Command (AFMC) responsibilities for acquisition, sustainment,  research  and development, test and evaluation,  and installation mission  support that enable the warfighting capabilities of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 4.5.  Countering  WMD  and  Nuclear-related  Treaty  Compliance.    These  activities  are connected  with  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  as  described  in  AFPD  10-26,  Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (CWMD) Enterprise, AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and  Nonproliferation  Agreements,  and  the  DoD  Foreign  Clearance  Program,  and  The United  States  Air  Force  Counter-Chemical,  Biological,  Radiological,  and  Nuclear  Master Plan FY 2010-2015. 5.  Roles and Responsibilities. 5.1.  Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF)  .  The SecAF, or his/her designee, formulates Air Force nuclear policies and programs consistent with national security objectives, implements nuclear  policy,  program,  and  budget  decisions,  and  fulfills  Combatant  Command  (CCMD) operational  requirements  IAW  10  USC  §  8013,  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force.    The  SecAF provides authority, direction, and control for the  Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) in executing  his  responsibilities  in  the  nuclear  deterrence  mission  IAW  10  USC  §  8040.    The SecAF  develops  policy,  guidance,  and  procedures  for  response  task  force  operating requirements  IAW  DoDD  3150.08,  Department  of  Defense  Response  to  Nuclear  and Radiological  Incidents,  and  ensures  the  surety  of  all  nuclear  weapons  and  weapon  systems for  which  the  Air  Force  has  a  life-cycle  management  responsibility.    The  SecAF  develops detailed  technical  and  operational  procedures  that  govern  nuclear  weapon  operations, transportation,  storage,  and  maintenance  through  the  complete  STS  IAW  DoDD  3150.02, DoD  Nuclear  Weapons  Surety  Program,  and  executes  responsibilities  as  EA  for  the  DoD FCP IAW DoDD 4500.54E and has delegated these responsibilities to AF/A10 in HAF MD 1-60, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5 5.2.  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  (CSAF)  .    The  CSAF  carries  out  SecAF-approved plans  and  recommendations  of  the  Air  Staff  pertaining  to  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise IAW 10 USC § 8033,  Chief of  Staff.  Subject  to the authority, direction,  and control of the SecAF, the CSAF is responsible for overseeing the safety, security, reliability, effectiveness, and  credibility  of  the  nuclear  deterrence  mission  of  the  Air  Force  IAW  10  USC  §  8040.  Further,  the  CSAF  assigns  responsibilities  and  establishes  supported  and  supporting relationships  among  subordinate  organizations  that  operate  or  support  nuclear  weapons  and nuclear weapons systems through this policy directive. 5.3.  Under Secretary of the Air  Force (USecAF).  The USecAF is responsible to provide Secretariat executive-level representation of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  The USecAF contributes  to  the  development  of  nuclear  policy  and  strategy,  identification  of  funding options and solutions, and sustainment of nuclear career fields.  The USecAF advocates for the nuclear mission at all levels of the U.S. Government. 5.4.  Commander,  Air  Force  Global  Strike  Command  (AFGSC/CC).  Commander, AFGSC  serves  as  the  single  accountable  officer  to  the  SecAF  and  the  CSAF  for  all operational aspects of the Air Force nuclear mission, specifically, forces in support of United States  Strategic  Command  (USSTRATCOM),  as  contemplated  by  the  National  Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.  Commander, AFGSC chairs the Air Force Nuclear Operations Council (AFNOC).  Reference para 5.20.7. for command responsibilities. 5.5.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Strategic  Deterrence  and  Nuclear  Integration (AF/A10).  AF/A10 serves as the HAF accountable officer responsible to the SecAF and the CSAF for the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise IAW HAF MD 1-60.  AF/A10 provides direction, guidance,  integration,  and  advocacy  regarding  the  nuclear  deterrence  mission  of  the  Air Force  IAW  10  USC  §  8040.    AF/A10  retains  higher  headquarters  responsibilities  for  Air Force NLCC/NC3 policy, strategy, and planning IAW Air Force, DoD, and Chairman of the Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  policies.    The  directorate  provides  guidance  for  all  organizations  with nuclear weapons or responsibilities and authorities for systems supporting nuclear operations.  Guidance may pertain to implementing national-level directives as directed by SecAF/CSAF and includes the safety, security, reliability, and effectiveness of Air Force nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons systems, planning, strategy, and policy development, and assessment of Air Force Nuclear Enterprise activities.  AF/A10 will: 5.5.1.  Conduct  monitoring  and  oversight  activities  regarding  the  safety,  security, reliability, and effectiveness of the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force. 5.5.2.  Conduct  periodic  comprehensive  assessments  of  all  aspects  of  the  Air  Force’s nuclear  deterrence  mission  IAW  10  USC  §  8040  and  provide  these  assessments  to  the SecAF and the CSAF.  Consolidated assessments of the health and status of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise provide analytical support to leaders at all levels, equip them to better advocate for the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, and facilitate risk decisions at appropriate levels.  Assessments are built on robust self-inspection at each level of authority and are conducted IAW AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System. 5.5.3.  Serve as the Air Force entry point for Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Joint Staff (JS), Air Staff, MAJCOMs, Department of Energy (DOE), and other agencies concerning matters related to the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 6 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.5.4.  Chair and charter the Nuclear Enterprise Action Committee (NEAC). 5.5.5.  On  behalf  of  the  SecAF  and  the  CSAF,  represent  the  Air  Force  to  the  Nuclear Weapons  Council  (NWC)  IAW  10  USC  §  179,  Nuclear  Weapons  Council,  and  to  the NLCC  Executive  Management  Board  (EMB).    Provide  support  to  organizations subordinate to the NWC. 5.5.5.1.  Act  as  the  primary  Air  Force  interface  to  DoD  CIO  as  the  chair  for  the NLCC  EMB  and  its  subordinate  boards  and  working  groups,  providing  technical information and framing issues to support Air Force NC3 requirements.  AF/A10 will defer to SAF/CIO A6 on non-NC3 related issues. 5.5.6.  Integrate strategic planning and future concept  development  for nuclear weapons and nuclear weapon systems across the Air Force. 5.5.7.  Lead  Air  Force  participation  in  DoD-sponsored  program  budget  reviews  and participate in Service-level programming, budgeting, and resourcing activities. 5.5.7.1.  Present  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  equities  to  stakeholders  and  identify innovative  and  cost-effective  solutions  throughout  the  strategic  planning  and programming  process  (SP3).    These  equities  are  communicated  through  the  United States Air Force (USAF) Strategic Master Plan to risk-assessed core function support plans  (CFSP)  developed  by  Service  Core  Function  (SCF)  Core  Function  Leads (CFL).    Close  coordination  with  AF/A5/8  and  SCF  CFLs  in  eleven  of  the  twelve SCFs  ensures  the  PPBE  process  not  only  reflects  Nuclear  Enterprise  risk-assessed capabilities,  gaps,  and  shortfalls  but  also  sustainment,  modernization,  and recapitalization  plans  and  maintaining  and  constructing  appropriate  facilities  and providing the force with properly maintained equipment. 5.5.8.  Lead HAF efforts in the assessment of NC3 programs, policies, and capabilities to ensure  that  the  Service  budgets,  develops,  acquires,  supports,  and  maintains  assigned NC3  systems  and  Air  Force  elements  of  the  National  Military  Command  System (NMCS). 5.5.9.  Lead  Air  Force  participation  in  DoD  program  budget  reviews  for  the  Air  Force Nuclear Enterprise and Air Force NLCC/NC3 programs and resources. 5.5.10.  Participate  in  programming,  budgeting,  and  resourcing  activities  for  Air  Force NLCC/NC3 programs and resources. 5.5.11.  Develop,  implement,  and  evaluate  Air  Force  Personnel  Reliability  Assurance Program  (PRAP)  policy  and  procedures  IAW  DoD  Personnel  Reliability  Assurance (PRA)  policy  guidelines;  provide  oversight  of  Air  Force  nuclear  weapons  PRAP;  liaise with the Department of the Navy and other DoD agencies on PRA policy interpretation; and serve as the technical advisor on behalf of the CSAF for PRAP-related issues. 5.5.12.  Provide guidance and advocacy for deterrence research and for the development of  education  and  training  for  nuclear-related  career  fields  in  coordination  with  Air Education and Training Command (AETC). 5.5.13.  As the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority (NEFA) appointed by the SecAF, provide direction, advocacy, and integration for the health of nuclear career fields  through  the  accession,  retention,  and  deliberate  development  of  nuclear  Airmen.  AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 7 The  NEFA  prioritizes  limited  resources,  defines  and  articulates  human  capital requirements,  validates  and  approves  key  nuclear  billets  (KNB),  deliberately  develops assigned Airmen, and supports other nuclear-related functional authorities (FA). 5.5.13.1.  As the Nuclear and Missile Operations (13N) career field FA and functional manager, provide strategic oversight for nuclear force development efforts.  Charter, convene,  and  chair  development  teams  (DT),  support  accession  processes,  and validate  advanced  academic  degree  requirements  and  professional  continuing education requirements in coordination with AF/A1. 5.5.14.  Lead  arms  control  and  international  treaties  implementation  and  compliance measures  that  affect  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  as  well  as  conventional  arms control treaties, agreements, and nonproliferation measures. 5.5.15.  Lead  policy  and  guidance  development  for  the  peacetime  airlift  of  nuclear  and nuclear-related  cargo  IAW  the  DoD  Foreign  Clearance  Guide  (FCG)  and  the  FCG Special  Weapons  Overflight  Guide  Supplement.    Manage  the  Aircraft  and  Personnel Automated Clearance System. 5.5.16.  Review  this  Directive  IAW  AFI  33-360,  Publications  and  Forms  Management, to ensure it remains current. 5.5.17.  Perform other duties as described in HAF MD 1-60. 5.6.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Manpower,  Personnel  and  Services  (AF/A1).  AF/A1 manages  personnel  performing  nuclear-related  duties  and/or  assigned  to  KNBs  and  is responsible for approval of personnel policies.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/A1 will: 5.6.1.  Oversee  personnel  management,  accessions,  development, requirements, utilization,  and  sustainment  of  the  Service’s  nuclear-related  RegAF  and  federal  civilian personnel to ensure a fully-qualified force. 5.6.2.  Support AF/A10 in identifying methods to capture KNBs and other nuclear human capital requirements in the Manpower Programming and Execution System. 5.6.3.  Serve  as  subject  matter  expert  for  Air  Force  specialty  codes  related  to  KNBs, additional qualification designators, and enlisted classifications. 5.6.4.  Integrate nuclear human capital planning and programming requirements into Air Force resource allocation and PPBE process. 5.6.5.  Partner  with  AF/A10 to  assess  the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by supporting requests for data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2).  The directorate  executes  policy  formulation,  planning,  evaluation,  oversight,  and  leadership  of Air  Force  intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance  capabilities  for  the  purpose  of supporting intelligence requirements for global Air Force nuclear operations.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/A2 will: 5.7.1.  Establish  mechanisms  to  develop  and  maintain  recurring  intelligence  products covering non-U.S. nuclear systems  and incorporating threat assessments and analysis of security risks and vulnerabilities; promulgate these products with Air Combat Command 8 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 (ACC),  AFGSC,  Air  Force  Space  Command  (AFSPC),  AFMC,  AF/A10,  subordinate units, and other units at the request of ACC, AFGSC, AFSPC, AFMC, or AF/A10. 5.7.2.  Establish  policies  and  processes  to  provide  intelligence  and  threat  support  to  Air Force  NLCC/NC3  programs  IAW  AFI  14-111,  Intelligence  Support  to  the  Acquisition Life-Cycle, and promulgate these products  with  ACC, AFGSC, AFSPC, AFMC, United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), AF/A10, subordinate units, and other units at the request of ACC, AFGSC, AFSPC, AFMC, or AF/A10. 5.8.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  Operations  (AF/A3).  AF/A3  organizes,  trains,  and  equips nuclear  forces  for  Joint  warfighters  by  providing  near  real-time,  accurate,  and  relevant solutions to nuclear operational challenges and requirements.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/A3 will: 5.8.1.  Assist  in  the  integration  of  nuclear  and  conventional  forces  into  operational strategies, organizational concepts, policy, and guidance. 5.8.2.  Include  nuclear  operations  capabilities  and  effects  in  appropriate  concepts  of operations  (CONOPS)  and  properly  coordinate  all  nuclear  and  related  NMCS requirements with AF/A10. 5.8.3.  Participate  in  executing  the  orders  and  direction  of  the  President  of  the  United States  (POTUS),  Secretary  of  Defense  (SecDef),  JS,  or  National  Military  Command Center during actual or exercise nuclear weapons accidents and incidents. 5.8.4.  Maintain Air Force Key Capability Areas, to include nuclear capabilities identified within  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  Capability  Viewpoints,  at  the  direction  of AFGSC. 5.8.5.  Include Air Force Nuclear Enterprise and  Air Force NLCC/NC3 capabilities into the Air Force Warfighter Mission Area at the direction of AFGSC. 5.8.6.  Partner  with  AF/A10 to  assess  the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.9.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Logistics,  Engineering  and  Force  Protection (AF/A4).  AF/A4  provides  leadership,  management,  human  capital  development,  and integration  of  Air  Force  engineering, logistics  readiness,  security  forces,  materiel management, transportation,  and  aircraft,  nuclear  weapons,  munitions,  and  missile maintenance  relevant  to  the  Nuclear  Enterprise.    The  directorate  is  responsible  to  advocate for  military  construction,  facilities  sustainment,  restoration  and  maintenance,  and  base operations support requirements for the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/A4 will: 5.9.1.  Develop policy and guidance for nuclear weapons maintenance, nuclear weapons explosive  ordnance  disposal,  assessment  of  nuclear  facilities  and  infrastructure,  force protection,  nuclear  weapons  systems,  nuclear  weapons-related  materiel  logistics,  and nuclear weapon accident response. 5.9.2.  Serve  as  the  authority  for  the  management  and  control  of  all  Air  Force  nuclear weapons-related materiel. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 9 5.9.3.  Develop policy and guidance for security protection of nuclear weapons, reactors, materials, and coding equipment. 5.9.4.  Develop  policy  and  guidance  for  agile  combat  support  related  to  the  Air  Force Nuclear Enterprise. 5.9.5.  Develop logistics policy and guidance in support of Prime Nuclear Airlift Forces (PNAF) operations. 5.9.6.  Develop  policy  and  guidance  for  nuclear  logistics  and  storage  antiterrorism measures. 5.9.7.  Partner  with  AF/A10 to  assess  the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.10.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Strategic  Plans  and  Requirements  (AF/A5/8).  As  lead for  the  Air  Force’s  SP3,  the  directorate  is  responsible  for  integrating  nuclear  planning  and programming requirements into Air Force resource allocation and PPBE policy and guidance as  well  as  Air  Force  SP3  activities.    In  coordination  with  AFGSC/A5/8  and  AF/A10, AF/A5/8 will: 5.10.1.  Coordinate  nuclear  plans  and  requirements  with  all  Air  Force  components  that have Air Force Nuclear Enterprise equities. 5.10.2.  Translate  vision  and  strategy  into  planning  to  reflect  the  CSAF’s  strategic priorities  for  the  development  of  CFSPs  and  near-,  mid-,  and  far-term  investment strategies pertaining to Air Force nuclear weapons and weapons systems. 5.10.3.  Develop capabilities and program requirements for nuclear deterrence. 5.10.4.  Serve as Air Force lead for applicable JS Functional Capabilities Board. 5.10.5.  Partner with AF/A10 to assess the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.11.  Director, Studies, Analyses and Assessments (AF/A9).  AF/A9 is responsible for the integration of studies, analyses, and assessments of programs, plans, and operations related to the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/A9 will: 5.11.1.  Assess future nuclear force structure/alternatives. 5.11.2.  Synchronize  DoD  and  Air  Force  nuclear  capabilities  and  requirements  analyses and optimize nuclear force personnel and infrastructure through the Support for Strategic Analysis (SSA) community tri-chaired by OSD(CAPE), OSD(P), and JS/J8. 5.11.3.  As  a  member  of  the  DoD  Analysis  Community,  validate  SSA  products  (i.e., integrated security constructs or scenarios) involving the use or employment of Air Force nuclear weapons. 5.11.4.  Guide the assessment of all elements of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 5.11.5.  Validate  risk  assessment  models  created  by  CFLs  to  assess  risk  to  Air  Force SCFs with Air Force Nuclear Enterprise equities. 5.11.6.  Partner with AF/A10 to assess the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing analysis and technical advice on the assessment process. 10 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.12.  Air  Force  Chief  of  Safety  (AF/SE)  and  Air  Force  Safety  Center  (AFSEC) Commander.  AF/SE  (Commander,  AFSEC)  provides  capabilities  to  identify,  assess,  and mitigate  strategic,  operational,  and  tactical  risks  to  the  safe  accomplishment  of  the  nuclear mission.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/SE (Commander, AFSEC) will: 5.12.1.  Develop  and  establish  Air  Force  guidance,  training,  planning,  programs,  and safety design certification of nuclear weapon systems and components. 5.12.2.  Develop and establish Air Force nuclear surety standards and policies for safety. 5.12.3.  Assess nuclear weapons systems and systems requirements for safety. 5.12.4.  Appoint  the  Chairperson  to  the  Nuclear  Weapons  System  Surety  Group (NWSSG), which conducts nuclear weapon system safety studies and operational safety reviews to evaluate Air Force nuclear weapon systems and ensure DoD Nuclear Weapon System  Surety  Standards  are  met  in  weapon  system  design  and  operations  IAW  DoD Manual  (DoDM)  3150.02,  DoD  Nuclear  Weapon  System  Safety  Program  Manual,  and AFI  91-102,  Nuclear  Weapon  System  Safety  Studies,  Operational  Safety  Reviews,  and Safety Rules. 5.12.5.  Review  nuclear  surety  and  security  deviations  IAW  AFI  91-101,  Air  Force Nuclear  Weapons  Surety  Program,  and  DoDM  S-5210.41  Volume  1,  Nuclear  Weapon Security Manual: The DoD Nuclear Weapon Security Program (U). 5.12.6.  Fulfill the requirements of DoDD S-5210.81 related to surety of nuclear weapons and weapons systems, DoDD 3150.02, AFI 91-101, and AFI 91-102. 5.12.7.  Partner with AF/A10 to assess the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.13.  Air  Force  Surgeon  General  (AF/SG).  AF/SG is  responsible to  enable medically  fit forces, provide expeditionary medics, and improve the health of those performing the nuclear mission.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/SG will: 5.13.1.  Implement  AF/A10-established  and  certified  policies  to  select  and  maintain reliable  individuals  to  perform  duties  associated  with  nuclear  weapons  IAW  DoDM 5210.42  (AFMAN  13-501),  Nuclear  Weapons  Personnel  Reliability  Program  (PRP) Regulation, and AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel. 5.13.2.  Establish force health protection and medical surveillance policy, coordinate with AF/SE on implementation of nuclear intrinsic radiation safety policy as part of the safety and  occupational  health  program,  and  execute  radiation  dosimetry,  as  applicable,  for nuclear  capable  units  and  nuclear  career  fields  IAW  DODD  3150.02,  AFPD  91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, AFI 91-108, Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation (INRAD)  and  91(B)  Radioactive  Material  Safety  Program,  DoDI  6055.01,  DoD  Safety and  Occupational  Health  (SOH)  Program,  and  DoDI  6055.05,  Occupational  and Environmental Health (OEH). 5.13.3.  Organize, train, and equip the Air Force Radiation Assessment Team to provide radiological  monitoring  and  analysis  capability  for  nuclear  and  radiological  incidents IAW DoDD 3150.08, DoDI 3150.10, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon Incidents, and DoDM 3150.08, Nuclear Weapon Accident Response Procedures (NARP). AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 11 5.14.  Director,  Air  Force  Test  and  Evaluation  (AF/TE).  AF/TE  oversees  test  and evaluation  (T&E)  of  Air  Force  nuclear  weapons  delivery  systems  IAW  AFI  99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation.  In coordination with AF/A10, AF/TE will: 5.14.1.  Provide  guidance  and  review  of  T&E  plans,  execution,  policies,  programs,  and budgets. 5.14.2.  Determine the adequacy of T&E resources required to support Air Force weapon system development. 5.14.3.  Resolve  developmental  and  operational  test  programmatic  issues  for  Air  Force systems. 5.15.  Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SAF/AA).  SAF/AA provides  oversight  for  accountability,  training,  and  delivery  of  accurate  guidance  for  the handling,  safeguarding,  protecting,  or  releasing  of  nuclear-related  information  pursuant  to Title 42 USC 2011 et seq., Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 10 Code of Federal Regulations Part 1045,  Nuclear  Classification  and  Declassification,  and  DoDI  5210.02,  Access  to  and Dissemination of Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data.  SAF/AA also serves as the Restricted Data Management Official on behalf of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 5.16.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ).  SAF/AQ leads the acquisition  (i.e.,  research,  development,  production,  and  support)  of  Air  Force  nuclear weapons  delivery  systems  and  related  materiel  in  coordination  with  federal  agencies  for which the Air Force has life cycle management responsibility.  In coordination with AF/A10, SAF/AQ will: 5.16.1.  Through  multiple  Air  Force  program  executive  offices  (AFPEO),  ensure  the timely  delivery  and  life-cycle  sustainment  of  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  system capabilities  and  equipment  to  the  warfighter  based  on  validated  requirements  and funding. 5.16.2.  Partner with AF/A10 to assess the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.17.  Chief,  Information  Dominance  and  Chief  Information  Officer  (SAF/CIO A6).  SAF/CIO  A6  provides  warfighting  integration  and  net-centric  advocacy  supporting resourcing and delivery of Air Force NC3 system capabilities, equipment to warfighters, and sustainment to the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  In coordination with AF/A10, SAF/CIO A6 will: 5.17.1.  Coordinate  with  AFGSC  and  AF/A10  to  provide  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3-related cyber security policy, guidance, and oversight.  Advocate for, and provide feedback on, Air Force NLCC/NC3 cybersecurity and related issues to the National Security Agency. 5.17.2.  Coordinate  with  AFGSC  and  AF/A10  on  additional  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3-related  development,  career  field  management,  training,  and  education  for  cyber communications and information Air Force Specialty Code and occupational series. 5.17.3.  Coordinate  with  Defense  Information  Systems  Agency  (DISA),  AFGSC,  and AF/A10  on  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  architecture  requirements  and,  in  coordination  with AFGSC, ensure future Air Force NLCC/NC3 systems satisfy data strategy requirements. 12 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.17.4.  In  coordination  with  Air  Mobility  Command  (AMC),  oversee  the  Air  Force portion of the Senior Leader Command, Control, and Communications System (SLC3S), a principal mission area of the NLCC. 5.17.5.  Partner with AF/A10 to assess the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.18.  Inspector General of the Air Force (SAF/IG).  SAF/IG enhances nuclear inspection processes,  ensures  consistent  nuclear  inspection  standards,  and  assesses  the  readiness, economy,  efficiency,  and  the  state  of  discipline  of  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise.    In coordination with AF/A10, SAF/IG will: 5.18.1.  Develop formal processes to share potential systemic issues and best practices in conjunction  with  Defense  Threat  Reduction  Agency  (DTRA),  Joint  Nuclear,  Homeland Defense, and Current Operations Directorate (JS/J33), and MAJCOMs. 5.18.2.  Advise on trends and issues of compliance with established DoD and Air Force nuclear weapons systems safety, security, accident and incident response, reliability, and personnel policy based on inspection results. 5.18.3.  Partner with AF/A10 to assess the health of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise by providing data, analysis, and other inputs to the assessment process. 5.18.4.  Commander, Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA).  As a SAF/IG field operating agency  (FOA),  AFIA  conducts  independent  inspections,  evaluations,  and  analyses  to advance continuous improvement of Air Force mission effectiveness within the Air Force Nuclear  Enterprise.    AFIA  duties  are  prescribed  by  AFI  90-201.    In  coordination  with AF/A10, AFIA will: 5.18.4.1.  Conduct  oversight  assessments  to  provide  independent  validation  and verification  of  Air  Force  inspections  and  promote  standardization  across  the  Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 5.18.4.2.  Provide feedback to SAF/IG and MAJCOM commanders on the efficiency, effectiveness, and consistency of MAJCOM Inspector General (IG) teams conducting inspections.    Feedback  is  derived  from  over-the-shoulder  observation  of  inspection planning  and  execution,  focusing  on  the  quality,  standardization,  objectivity, thoroughness, and conduct of the MAJCOM IG team. 5.18.4.3.  Integrate with  MAJCOM IG teams on all scheduled and no-notice nuclear surety  inspections  (NSI)  used  to  operationally  certify  and  verify  nuclear-capable units,  support  NSI  re-inspections,  select  Initial  NSIs,  and  provide  expertise  across various nuclear surety major graded areas. 5.18.4.4.  Provide  technical  assistance  in  the  operation  and  inspection  of  nuclear-capable units.  This assistance will pertain to all matters related to the robust, reliable, flexible,  and  survivable  operation  and  maintenance  of  nuclear  weapons  and  nuclear weapons  systems  and  promote  the  correction  of  deficiencies  found  during inspections. 5.18.4.5.  Provide instruction to all NSI inspectors. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 13 5.19.  Deputy  Under  Secretary  (Space)  (SAF/SP).  SAF/SP  supports  the  SecAF  in  all matters  pertaining  to  both  the  Air  Force  and  the  National  Security  Space  (NSS)  enterprise, including  those  space  enterprise  capabilities  directly  supporting  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise.    The  directorate  oversees  all  Air  Force  departmental  space  matters,  including policies,  strategies,  plans,  programming,  and  architecture  assessment  across  the  Space Enterprise.    This  includes  space  capabilities  performing  Integrated  Tactical  Warning  and Attack Assessment (ITW/AA) and survivable/endurable  NC3 systems  in support  of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  In coordination with AF/A10, SAF/SP will: 5.19.1.  Advance NSS strategies through established processes for PPBE, space program acquisition, and space policy development. 5.19.2.  Advise  DoD  leaders  of  redundancies  and  gaps  to  provide  options  and recommendations for program execution and funding adjustments, as appropriate. 5.20.  MAJCOM, FOA, and Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) Responsibilities. 5.20.1.  MAJCOMs,  FOAs,  and  DRUs  will  enhance  and  reinforce  nuclear  partnerships among each other to ensure the viability of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 5.20.2.  With  the  exception  of  Pacific  Air  Forces  (PACAF),  MAJCOMs,  FOAs,  and DRUs  conducting  or  supporting  nuclear  operations  will  develop  plans,  guidance, procedures,  training,  and  budgets  in  coordination  with  MAJCOM  commanders  and AF/A10.    MAJCOMs  integrate  nuclear  capabilities  into  appropriate  CONOPS,  provide standardized nuclear mission materials for training and operational use by crews and NC3 maintainers, and establish uniform implementation guidance and procedures.  MAJCOMs will conduct operations in compliance with treaty obligations. 5.20.3.  Appropriate  MAJCOMs  with  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  responsibilities  and equities  have  established  an  A10  directorate  (or  equivalent)  as  their  focal  point  for strategic deterrence and nuclear integration matters.  The purpose of the A10 directorate (or  equivalent)  is  to  review  MAJCOM  guidance  governing  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise  and  consolidate  relevant  MAJCOM  force  structure,  readiness,  sustainability, and  vulnerability  data  for  analysis  and  requirements  reporting.    MAJCOM  A10s  (or equivalent)  will  coordinate  with,  and  report  back  to,  AF/A10  on  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise issues. 5.20.4.  MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will partner with  AF/A10 to  assess  the health of the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  by  providing  data,  analysis,  and  other  inputs  to  the assessment process. 5.20.5.  Air  Combat  Command  (ACC).  ACC  provides  nuclear-capable  combat airpower to warfighting commands.  ACC is responsible to provide guidance, oversight, and  staff  activities  to  sustain  an  enduring  position  within  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise.  In coordination with AF/A10, ACC will: 5.20.5.1.  Advocate  for  Combat  Air  Force  (CAF)-related  Dual  Capable  Aircraft (DCA) requirements. 5.20.5.2.  Support USAFE in its organize, train, and equip responsibilities for DCA. 5.20.5.3.  Train, equip, and support reconnaissance capabilities for nuclear operations, NC3, and other strategic deterrence missions. 14 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.20.5.4.  Integrate  AFGSC  forces  into  CAF  operations,  training,  and  exercises  to support CCDR requirements for global strike and air and space expeditionary forces. 5.20.5.5.  Develop concepts and strategies to support AFGSC nuclear forces through force packaging and mutual support. 5.20.5.6.  In coordination with USSTRATCOM, integrate nuclear weapon operations (from employment to accidents and incidents) into operational planning scenarios. 5.20.5.7.  Support AFGSC in the conduct of the Nuclear Weapon System Evaluation Program for DCA. 5.20.5.8.  Support  AFGSC  as  needed  and  assist  in  defining,  assessing,  and  refining MAJCOM  nuclear  requirements  and  coordinating  on  operational  topics,  strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.5.9.  Conduct  and  report  on lifecycle  planning,  resource  management, sustainment, maintenance status, and requirements for assigned NC3-related systems. 5.20.5.10.  Provide annual master plans to correct NC3 shortfalls when requested by the AFNOC. 5.20.5.11.  Liaise  with  the  USAF  NC3  Center  to  enable  two-way  cooperation  on operational  topics  (e.g.,  DCA),  strategy  development,  and  planning,  programming, and budgeting. 5.20.5.12.  Serve  as  a  member  on  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Oversight  Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.5.13.  Incorporate  NC3  concepts,  nuclear  strike  missions,  and  nuclear  weapons employment  concepts  into  advanced  weapons  and  tactics  training  at  all  USAF Weapons School squadrons and Red Flag exercises. 5.20.5.14.  Provide operational test support (via 53d Wing, Eglin Air Force Base) to AFGSC for nuclear bombers and associated AFGSC lead command-assigned nuclear and conventional weapon systems. 5.20.5.15.  Air  Force  Technical  Applications  Center  (AFTAC).    Performs  nuclear treaty monitoring and nuclear event detection.  AFTAC provides national authorities quality  technical  measurements  to  monitor  treaty  compliance.    The  center  performs research  and  development  of  proliferation  detection  technologies  to  enhance  treaty verification and encourage nonproliferation. 5.20.6.  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC).  AETC  is  responsible  for training and educating Airmen assigned to positions that belong to the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  In coordination with AF/A10, AETC will: 5.20.6.1.  Develop  and  sustain  robust  and  realistic  nuclear  training  and  education programs.   Coordinate with  AFGSC to  annually review and update existing training and education programs. 5.20.6.2.  Emphasize  deterrence  principles  and  instill  a  nuclear  culture  –  the  core values  and  behaviors  resulting  from  a  collective  commitment  by  leaders  and individuals to emphasize the Service’s responsibilities to provide nuclear capabilities AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 15 to  CCDRs  –  through  education  and  training  curricula  at  all  levels  of  Air  Force developmental education. 5.20.6.3.  In  conjunction  with  MAJCOMs,  develop  measures  of  success  to  assess readiness and proficiency of Airmen to provide NC3 capabilities. 5.20.6.4.  Support  AFGSC  as  needed  and  assist  in  defining,  assessing,  and  refining MAJCOM  nuclear  requirements  and  coordinating  on  operational  topics,  strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.6.5.  Through the LeMay Center, serve as the lead agent for nuclear doctrine and for  the  collection,  tracking,  and  dissemination  of  nuclear  lessons  learned  and  issues resolution. 5.20.6.6.  Through Air University (AU): 5.20.6.6.1.  The  Air  Force  Global  Strike  chair  serves  as  the  central  point  of contact for coordination on deterrence education and research within AU and with external Air Force agencies. 5.20.6.6.2.  Develop  and maintain a central,  searchable information repository to sustain  continuous  awareness  of  contemporary  deterrence  research.    Include research products  from  Air Force faculty and students  and other  appropriate Air Force  science,  technology,  engineering,  and  math  sources.    Include  relevant deterrence and assurance research developed by academia and non-governmental organizations. 5.20.6.6.3.  Develop  and  distribute  deterrence  research  results  to  the  wider  Air Force community, and engage with appropriate U.S. Government, academic, and non-governmental organizations. 5.20.6.7.  Serve as a member on the Air Force NLCC/NC3 Oversight Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.6.8.  Provide  input  to  appropriate  MAJCOMs  on  plans  for  professional development, career field management training, and education of NC3 practitioners. 5.20.6.9.  Brief Air Force Nuclear Enterprise senior leaders on all nuclear deterrence education, training, and research initiatives across the Air Force. 5.20.7.  Air Force Global  Strike Command (AFGSC).  As a component MAJCOM of USSTRATCOM and U.S. Northern Command, AFGSC provides combat ready forces for deterrence  and  global  strike  operations  on  behalf  of  the  POTUS  and  CCDRs.    The command is responsible for ICBM systems, dual capable B-2/B-52 bombers with nuclear and  conventional  missions,  conventional  B-1  bombers,  UH-1N  helicopters  with  escort and  emergency  response  missions,  gravity  nuclear  weapons,  nuclear  cruise  missiles, National  Airborne  Operations  Center  aircraft  (E-4),  Mobile  Consolidated  Command Center, NC3 weapon system, NLCC (except SLC3S), and supporting strategic operations squadrons.  Specifically, AFGSC will: 5.20.7.1.  Organize,  train,  and  equip  forces  to  conduct  strategic  deterrence  and  NC2 operations. 16 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.20.7.2.  Provide  stewardship  of  nuclear  weapons  across  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise. 5.20.7.2.1.  Retain  custody  of,  and  provide  security  for,  nuclear  weapons  within storage areas, on alert, and in transit between storage and alert or other flightline locations  (e.g.,  launch  facilities  and  aircraft)  at  Continental  U.S.  (CONUS) installations.  Transfer custody for nuclear weapons to authorized DOE personnel IAW  established  procedures  and  provide  security  support  while  transiting  the installation. 5.20.7.2.2.  Conduct  the  Nuclear  Weapon  Stockpile  Evaluation  Program  for ICBM forces and nuclear-capable bomber forces. 5.20.7.2.3.  Provide  for  the  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable  technical operation and maintenance of operational  nuclear weapons  and nuclear weapons systems under its cognizance. 5.20.7.3.  Serve  as  the  Air  Force  lead  for  the  development  of  strategy;  employment concepts;  tactics,  techniques,  and  procedures;  and  integration  of  nuclear  air  forces with combat and mobility air forces. 5.20.7.4.  Serve  as  lead  command  for  Air  Force  NC3  and  coordinate  with  program offices, other Services, CCMDs, and agencies that have NLCC/NC3-related systems. 5.20.7.5.  Review and endorse nuclear weapons security policy deviations to AF/A4S, including  the  annual  nuclear  weapons  security  deviation  report  IAW  DoDM  S-5210.41  Volume  2  (AFMAN  31-108),  Nuclear  Weapon  Security  Manual:  General Nuclear Weapon Security Procedures. 5.20.7.6.  Implement  policies  related  to,  provide  C2  for,  and  conduct  oversight  of CONUS nuclear accident/incident response by: 5.20.7.6.1.  Developing  guidance  to  establish  tactics,  techniques,  and  procedures for  accident/  incident  response  and  associated  plans  based  on  technical  acumen and  authority  IAW  HAF,  CCMD,  and  national  level  policy,  guidance,  and directives. 5.20.7.6.2.  Developing  policies  associated  with  safety,  security,  materiel management,  and  accident/incident  response  for  nuclear  weapons  and  nuclear weapons systems. 5.20.7.6.3.  Formally  coordinating  with  Department  of  the  Navy,  Department  of Justice,  DOE,  and  other  U.S.  Government  agencies  during  nuclear  weapons accident/incident policy development. 5.20.7.6.4.  Organizing, resourcing, staffing, training, equipping, and exercising a Response Task Force (RTF). 5.20.7.6.5.  Incorporating  external  commands  and  organizations,  with  special capabilities  useful  to  properly  mitigate  the  effects  of  an  accident/incident,  into appropriate response plans. 5.20.7.7.  Conduct C2 activities supporting security of operational nuclear weapons. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 17 5.20.7.8.  Conduct cybersecurity oversight of Air Force NC3 systems IAW SAF/CIO cybersecurity policy and guidance.  Responsibilities include cybersecurity guidance, training,  and  support  to  Air  Force  organizations  processing,  transmitting,  or  storing associated  NC3  systems  IAW  DoDI  8500.01,  Cybersecurity,  and  DoD  8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program. 5.20.7.9.  Serve  as Maintenance/Hardness  Surveillance  oversight  authority  with  resourcing, planning, and execution responsibilities. the  Electromagnetic  Pulse  (EMP)  Testing  and  Hardness test 5.20.7.10.  Serve as the CFL for the Nuclear Deterrence Operations (NDO) SCF IAW Air  Force  Guidance  Memorandum  2016-90-1101,  Air  Force  Strategic  Planning Process, and lead command for the NC3 weapon system IAW PAD D16-01.  In this role,  advocate  for  NDO  requirements  and  solicit  inputs  from  other  MAJCOMs  and FOAs  with  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  equities  and  consolidate  them  into  their respective portfolio(s). 5.20.7.11.  Identify,  define,  and  refine  nuclear  gaps  and  requirements  and  provide solution  advocacy  through  Joint  Capabilities  Integration  and  Development  System (JCIDS), modification management, and PPBE processes. 5.20.7.12.  Lead  Air,  Ground,  and  NC3  capability  collaboration  teams  within  the NDO portfolio that support science and technology (S&T) processes. 5.20.7.13.  Advocate for weapons storage area, weapons storage facility, and weapons storage  and  security  system  (WS3)  infrastructure  requirements  related  to  nuclear weapons  maintenance  procedures  and  sustainment  IAW  host-tenant  support agreements. 5.20.7.14.  In  coordination  with  SAF/IG  and  owning  MAJCOMs/agencies,  develop an inspection/ assessment framework to ensure the inspection, assessment, oversight, and validation of the reliability of systems within the NC3 weapon system. 5.20.7.15.  Other responsibilities include: 5.20.7.15.1.  Assess and report on readiness of NDO forces. 5.20.7.15.2.  Ensure the adequacy of Air Force NDO exercise programs. 5.20.7.15.3.  Develop  business  rules  in  conjunction  with  supporting  MAJCOMs, SAF/IG,  and  AFIA  to  standardize  nuclear  inspection  programs  of  MAJCOMs supporting NDO. 5.20.7.15.4.  Provide input on the adequacy of supporting MAJCOMs’ resources dedicated  to  support  and  execute  NDO.    Provide  the  CSAF  and  Air  Force corporate process a prioritized 1-n list of NDO programs annually. 5.20.7.15.5.  In  coordination  with  MAJCOMs  having  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise equities, develop  partnerships and processes to  ensure standardization and  use  of  best  practices  across  nuclear  inspections,  exercises,  operations,  and support mission subsets. 5.20.7.15.6.  Maintain  a  Nuclear  Chief  Scientist  Group  to  focus  the  S&T community  on  NDO  requirements,  communicate  Commander,  AFGSC  intent  to 18 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise,  and  advise  Commander,  AFGSC  and  the AFNOC on S&T issues. 5.20.8.  Air  Force  Materiel  Command  (AFMC).  AFMC  provides  effective  NMM support  to  the  warfighter  by  managing  the  people,  organizations,  processes,  procedures and systems used to conduct, execute and support nuclear deterrence.  Included are:  the infrastructure  and  lifecycle  activities  for  nuclear  weapons,  delivery  platforms  and supporting systems; intellectual and technical competencies; and the cultural mindset that ensures  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable  Air  Force  nuclear  systems.    AFMC develops  and adheres to  nuclear policy and  guidance  and strengthens relationships  with organizations  contributing  to  nuclear  deterrence.    AFMC’s  NMM  responsibilities  cut across all AFMC and headquarters organizations and must be focused on providing agile cradle-to-grave support to the warfighter.  To best accomplish this, Commander, AFMC has  designated  the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Weapons  Center  (AFNWC)  as  the  AFMC supported  center  with  primary  responsibility,  authority  and  accountability  for synchronizing  all  NMM  activities  within  the  command.    As  a  result,  AFNWC  has  the authority  to  execute  its  responsibility  in  direct  support  of  AFGSC;  this  does  not  relieve other AFMC organizations of their respective responsibilities within NMM.  Specifically, AFMC designates AFNWC (via direct  support authority)  as the principal  representative of  the  command  for  NMM  and  authorizes  AFNWC  to  communicate  directly  with AFGSC at all levels regarding such matters.  With the exception of AFNWC, all AFMC centers are supporting centers.  In coordination with AF/A10, AFMC will: 5.20.8.1.  Organize, train, and equip to execute NMM functions necessary to acquire, modernize, and sustain nuclear systems and associated support and test equipment. 5.20.8.2.  Coordinate  Interagency  efforts  to  sustain  and  extend  the  life  of  nuclear warheads and bombs for the airborne and ground-based legs of the triad. 5.20.8.3.  Provide  support  to  AFNWC  to  effectively  execute  its  NMM  and  direct support  responsibilities.    Provide  necessary  information  and  assistance  from  AFMC centers  to  AFNWC  regarding  all  aspects  of  NMM  that  are  external  to,  or  not  the direct  responsibility  of,  AFNWC.    This  may  involve  systems  or  programs  that  have both nuclear and conventional missions and are not directly assigned to AFNWC, Air Force  Program  Executive  Officer  for  Strategic  Systems  (AFPEO/SS)  or  AFPEO  for Nuclear Command, Control and Communications (AFPEO/NC3). 5.20.8.4.  Assist in defining, assessing, and refining MAJCOM nuclear requirements and coordinating on operational topics, strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.8.5.  Develop and provide NC3 master plans to AFGSC for review and approval, and conduct annual reviews in coordination with AFGSC. 5.20.8.6.  Conduct  and  report  on lifecycle  planning,  resource  management, sustainment,  maintenance  status,  and  requirements  for  assigned  systems  associated with NC3. 5.20.8.7.  Provide input to AETC, AFGSC, and ACC (Weapons School) on plans for professional  development,  career  field  management  training,  and  education  of  NC3 practitioners. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 19 5.20.8.8.  Develop  the  Air  Force  plan  for  EMP  testing  across  all  conventional  and nuclear systems for all MAJCOMs and provide AFGSC the MAJCOM-validated Air Force-wide EMP test plan and requirements. 5.20.8.9.  Serve as a member on the Air Force NLCC/NC3 Oversight Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.9.  Air  Force  Installation  and  Mission  Support  Center  (AFIMSC).  AFIMSC provides  enterprise-wide  investment  recommendations  to  the  Air  Force  Corporate Structure, logistics  readiness,  security  forces,  and transportation relevant to the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. including  civil  engineering, 5.20.10.  Air  Force  Nuclear  Weapons  Center  (AFNWC)  .    AFNWC  is  the  AFMC supported  center  responsible  for  synchronizing  NMM  across  AFMC  and  the  Air  Force.  AFNWC  delivers  quality  solutions  to  sustain,  modernize,  and  recapitalize  nuclear warfighting  capabilities  and  ensures  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable  nuclear weapons  and  related  nuclear  certified  systems  in  support  of  POTUS  and  CCDRs.   AFNWC is delegated direct support authority in support of AFGSC regarding all areas of NMM.    Commander,  AFNWC  derives  authority  to  organize,  train,  and  equip  from Commander,  AFMC  and  is  dual-hatted  as  AFPEO/SS.    AFNWC  NC3  Integration Director  is  dual-hatted  as  the  AFPEO  for  NC3,  providing  integration  and  portfolio management  across  the  Air  Force  NC3  weapon  system.    Acquisition  authorities  for AFPEO/SS  and  AFPEO/NC3  flow  from  SAF/AQ.    Additional  responsibilities  are delineated  in  AFMC  MD  421,  Air  Force  Nuclear  Weapons  Center  (AFNWC).    In coordination with AF/A10 and AFGSC, AFNWC will: 5.20.10.1.  Synchronize  all  NMM  activities  across  AFMC  and  serve  as  the command’s  supported  center  and  principal  representative  to  AFGSC  for  all  NMM-related  matters.    This  also  includes  the  responsibility  to  serve  as  AFMC’s  primary advocate for NMM-related resource prioritization. 5.20.10.2.  Serve  as  the  primary  advocate  for  all  NMM  requirements  across  the  Air Force  and  collaborate  with  HAF,  MAJCOMs,  CFLs,  and  AFMC  centers  to  identify SP3  and  sustainment  requirements  relevant  to  NMM,  including  NMM  requirements for dual and multi-use platforms and systems. 5.20.10.3.  Communicate  and  collaborate  with  AFGSC  at  all  levels  to  ensure  force provider NMM requirements are satisfied in a timely manner. 5.20.10.4.  Collaborate  with  program  offices,  USAFE,  North  Atlantic  Treaty Organization  (NATO)  allies,  and  AFSEC  in  the  oversight  and  execution  of  nuclear safety,  security,  and  compatibility  design  guidance  for  nuclear  weapon/weapon systems  and  engineering  consulting  to  system  program  offices  and  product  support centers. 5.20.10.5.  Support AFPEO and program managers by providing integration authority related  to  air-delivered  capabilities  and  the  NC3  weapon  system.    Authority  and responsibility  pertain  to  weapon  system  architecture,  configuration  management, integration, test, verification, and certification. 5.20.10.5.1.  To  assist  in  focusing  on  the  nuclear  rolls  of  program  offices 20 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 associated  with  air-delivered  capabilities  and  key  organizations  associated  with the NC3 weapon system, embed nuclear experts in program management, product support, and NC3 at applicable locations. 5.20.10.6.  Develop and execute the Air Force EMP program IAW AFGSC direction. 5.20.10.6.1.  Partner with System Program Offices and MAJCOM representatives to generate a MAJCOM-validated EMP Test Priority List to include aircraft, line replaceable unit, facilities, ground support equipment, and NC3 systems. 5.20.10.6.2.  Perform program management functions for the EMP test program in order  to  coordinate  asset  and  test  facility  availability,  perform  data  review  and analysis, identify problems, suggest remediation strategies, perform risk analysis, and provide oversight and insight. 5.20.10.7.  Provide  direct  support  to  AFGSC  by  synchronizing  modernization  and procurement  of  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  systems  using  AFGSC  delineation  and prioritization of warfighter needs. 5.20.10.8.  Share portfolio health assessments on nuclear programs with AFGSC. 5.20.10.9.  Synchronize  with  other  MAJCOMs  for  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3-related activities and programs under their purview. 5.20.10.10.  Appoint a qualified individual to serve as a permanent member to the Air Force NWSSG. 5.20.10.11.  Serve  as  an  advisory  member  of  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Oversight Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.11.  Air  Force  Personnel  Center  (AFPC).  As  a  FOA  under  AF/A1,  AFPC supports  the  development  of  all  human  capital  policies  across  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise and executes those policies at the operational and tactical level.  AFPC leads and  manages  all  personnel  activities  and  programs  for  RegAF  and  federal  civilian employees,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  officer  and  enlisted  accessions,  military assignments,  civilian  staffing,  classification,  professional  development,  civilian  benefits and  entitlements,  military  separations  and  retirements,  awards  and  recognition, evaluations,  personnel  data  retrieval  and  analysis,  officer  and  enlisted  promotions,  and procedural  development  and  execution  of  nuclear  weapons  PRAP  and  PRAP Administrative Qualification Central Cell operations.  APFC will: 5.20.11.1.  Monitor  manning  levels  across  all  nuclear  career  fields,  ensuring  that nuclear  units  are  manned  per  SecAF/CSAF  direction,  to  include  development  and modification of enlisted manning points and personnel processing codes. 5.20.11.2.  Coordinate  with  Air  Staff  to  achieve  and  maintain  sustainable  accession levels for officer and enlisted nuclear career fields. 5.20.11.3.  Review  and  provide  program  advice  regarding  KNBs  IAW  AFI  13-504, Key Nuclear Billet (KNB) Program. 5.20.11.4.  Evaluate and assess Air Force Nuclear Enterprise civilian billet lists. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 21 5.20.11.5.  Provide PRAP administrative qualification reviews and recommendations to gaining certifying officials. 5.20.11.6.  Provide  expert  procedural  and  operational  guidance  for  management  of nuclear weapons PRAP. 5.20.11.7.  Provide ad hoc and recurring personnel data retrieval and analysis services (including metrics initiatives) consistent with customer needs and other requirements. 5.20.11.8.  Manage  the  Developmental  Education  Designation  Board  (DEDB) process for officers and federal civilians.  Director, Nuclear Integration will serve as an adjunct member of, and advisor to, the DEDB for nuclear-related fellowships and academic programs. 5.20.11.9.  Provide  support  to  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  civilian,  officer,  and enlisted career field managers for human capital initiatives and restructure efforts. 5.20.11.10.  Provide  civilian  classification  and  staffing  action  support  for  Air  Force Nuclear Enterprise civilian positions. 5.20.11.11.  Support civilian, officer, and enlisted DT meetings to fulfill career field management objectives. 5.20.11.12.  Adjust officer and enlisted classification directories in coordination with career field managers. 5.20.11.13.  Monitor  non-rated  Line  of  the  Air  Force  officer  classification  model results,  ensuring  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  career  fields  are  appropriately represented in the model outcomes based on Air Force needs, cadet quality measures, commission sources, and cadet preferences. 5.20.11.14.  As  a  key  mission  partner,  attend  and  support  all  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise deep dives for civilian, officer, and enlisted nuclear career fields. 5.20.11.15.  Director,  Nuclear  Integration  will  serve  as  a  member  of  the  Air  Force Nuclear Working Group. 5.20.11.16.  Director,  Nuclear  Integration  and  Superintendent,  Nuclear  Integration will serve on the NEAC. 5.20.11.17.  Appropriate officials will support the Nuclear Enterprise Human Capital Working Group. 5.20.11.18.  Director,  Nuclear  Integration  will  serve  as  a  member  of  the  Deterrence Education Task Force. 5.20.12.  Air  Force  Space  Command  (AFSPC).  AFSPC  provides  resilient  space  and cyberspace capabilities to Joint warfighters.  In coordination with AF/A10  and AFGSC, AFSPC will: 5.20.12.1.  Advocate  for  national  requirements  inherent  in  ground  and  space-based missile  warning  systems  including,  but  not  limited  to,  ITW/AA  systems,  military satellite communications systems, and supporting infrastructure (e.g.,  survivable and endurable components and supporting communication links). 22 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.20.12.2.  Advocate  for  AFSPC  resources  assigned  to  the  nuclear  mission  and coordinate  with  AFGSC  to  prioritize  NDO  mission  capabilities  over  a  30-year investment period and assess risk to the NDO portfolio within the CFSP development process. 5.20.12.3.  Provide  direct  support  to  Commander,  AFGSC,  as  needed,  and  assist  in defining  and  refining  NC3  requirements  and  coordinating  on  operational  topics, strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.12.4.  Serve  as  a  member  on  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Oversight  Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.12.5.  Provide  input  on  plans  for  professional  development,  career  field management training, and education of NC3 practitioners. 5.20.12.6.  Immediately  notify  Commander,  AFGSC  via  the  operational  reporting process  of  any  degrade(s)  of  any  space  or  terrestrial  system  (e.g.,  ITW/AA,  nuclear detonation  detection  package)  that  negatively  impacts  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise. 5.20.12.7.  Conduct  and  report  on lifecycle  planning,  resource  management, sustainment, maintenance status, and requirements for assigned NC3-related systems. 5.20.12.8.  Provide annual master plans to correct NC3 shortfalls when requested by the AFNOC. 5.20.13.  Air  Mobility  Command  (AMC).  AMC  provides  worldwide  cargo  and passenger  delivery,  air  refueling,  and  aeromedical  evacuation  of  nuclear  forces.    AMC organizes,  trains,  and  equips  air  refueling  and  airlift  forces  for  rapid  air  mobility  in support of the nuclear mission.  In coordination with AF/A10, AMC will: 5.20.13.1.  Provide  air  refueling,  airlift,  NC3,  and  PNAF  capabilities  in  support  of nuclear operations across the range of military operations. 5.20.13.2.  Advocate  for  AMC  resources  assigned  to  the  nuclear  mission  and coordinate  with  AFGSC  to  prioritize  NDO  capabilities  over  the  30-year  investment period and assess risk to the NDO portfolio within the CFSP development process. 5.20.13.3.  Provide  direct  support  to  Commander,  AFGSC,  as  needed,  and  assist  in defining  and  refining  NC3  requirements  and  coordinating  on  operational  topics, strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.13.4.  Serve  as  a  member  on  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Oversight  Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.13.5.  Serve as the Air Force lead command for SLC3S Airborne (SLC3S-A), a subset  of  the  SLC3S  consisting  primarily  of  airlift  aircraft,  and  coordinate  with AFGSC on changes to NC3-related systems. 5.20.13.6.  Advocate  for  SLC3S-A  requirements  having  a  direct  association  to  the NC3  mission  through  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Board  and  the  NC3  Oversight Council. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 23 5.20.13.7.  Conduct  and  report  on lifecycle  planning,  resource  management, sustainment, maintenance status, and requirements for assigned NC3-related systems. 5.20.13.8.  Provide annual master plans to correct NC3 shortfalls when requested by the AFNOC. 5.20.14.  Air Reserve Component (ARC). 5.20.14.1.  National  Guard  Bureau.    Provide  a  representative  to  serve  as  a  voting member on the Air Force NLCC/NC3 Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.14.2.  Air National Guard (ANG).  As the Air Force component of the National Guard,  ANG  provides  Title  10  combat  ready  forces  for  nuclear  operations  and associated logistical and mission support.  ANG will: 5.20.14.2.1.  Provide input on matters of policy and procedures affecting the ANG federal mission in support of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. 5.20.14.2.2.  Through training and mobilization readiness, prepare ANG forces to conduct assigned nuclear mission responsibilities while in Title 32 status. 5.20.14.3.  Air  Force  Reserve  Command  (AFRC).    AFRC  will  organize,  train,  and equip  assigned  combat-ready  reserve  forces  to  conduct  strategic  deterrence,  C2, intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance,  space,  cyberspace,  rapid  global mobility, and agile combat support operations in support of CCDR requirements. 5.20.14.3.1.  Support  AFGSC  as  needed  and  assist  in  defining,  assessing,  and refining MAJCOM nuclear requirements and coordinating on operational  topics, strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.14.3.2.  Serve as a member on the Air Force NLCC/NC3 Oversight Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.15.  Pacific  Air  Forces  (PACAF).  PACAF  provides  air  and  space  power  to promote  U.S.  interests  and  extend  deterrence  of  adversaries  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region.  PACAF  is  responsible  to  support  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable  nuclear operations  through  international  cooperative  agreements  founded  in  U.S.  national security requirements.  PACAF will: 5.20.15.1.  Support  AFGSC as needed and assist  in  defining, assessing, and refining MAJCOM  nuclear  requirements  and  coordinating  on  operational  topics,  strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.15.2.  Serve  as  a  member  on  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Oversight  Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.15.3.  Support  United  States  Pacific  Command  NC3  requirements  and  theater taskings for prioritization, lifecycle management, resources, and sustainment. 5.20.16.  United  States  Air  Forces  in  Europe  (USAFE).  USAFE  is  responsible  to organize,  train,  equip,  and  present  DCA  forces  to  NATO  in  coordination  with  United States  European  Command  (USEUCOM).    Commander,  USAFE  serves  as  the  Joint Force Commander to NATO.  In coordination with AF/A10, USAFE will: 24 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 5.20.16.1.  Provide compatible NC2 capabilities and NC3 systems in the USEUCOM theater for the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise in coordination with AFGSC and ACC. 5.20.16.2.  Conduct WS3 maintenance functions. 5.20.16.3.  Fulfill WS3 system sustainment  mission requirements in  the  USEUCOM area  of  responsibility  and  integrate  infrastructure,  communications,  and  security systems support. 5.20.16.4.  Provide  C2  for  nuclear  accident/incident  response  in  the  area  of responsibility through the RTF. 5.20.16.5.  Enable  robust,  reliable,  flexible,  and  survivable  nuclear  operations  in support of U.S. national security requirements and international agreements. 5.20.16.6.  Coordinate with ACC and AFGSC on Air Force CFSPs affecting the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise throughout the SP3. 5.20.16.7.  Support  AFGSC as needed and assist  in  defining, assessing, and refining MAJCOM  nuclear  requirements  and  coordinating  on  operational  topics,  strategy development, and PPBE. 5.20.16.8.  Serve  as  a  member  on  the  Air  Force  NLCC/NC3  Oversight  Council, Board, and Group and AFNOC. 5.20.16.9.  Conduct  and  report  on lifecycle  planning,  resource  management, sustainment, maintenance status, and requirements for assigned NC3-related systems. 5.20.16.10.  Provide annual master plans to correct NC3 shortfalls when requested by the AFNOC. 6.  Implementing Publications. 6.1.  AF/A10  develops  and  maintains  specified  AFIs  (reference  Attachment  1)  to  ensure standardization of nuclear operations across the Air Force. 6.2.  Unless  expressly  prohibited,  MAJCOMs,  FOAs,  and  Direct  Reporting  Units  may supplement  AFIs.    These  supplements  will  not  be  less  restrictive  than  AFIs.    Forward proposed supplements to AF/A10 for coordination.  Heather Wilson Secretary of the Air Force AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 25 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoDD 3150.01, Joint DoD-Department Of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration (DoD-DOE/NNSA) Nuclear Weapon Life-Cycle Activities, 4 August 2016. DoDI S-3730.01, Nuclear Command, Control and Communications (NC3) System, 6 November 2015. DoDI 5030.55, DoD Procedures for Joint DoD-DOE Nuclear Weapons Life-Cycle Activities, 25 January 2001. DoDI 5210.42, DoD Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Assurance, 27 April 2016. DoDD S-5210.81, United States Nuclear Weapons Command and Control, Safety, and Security (U), 8 August 2005. DoDD 2060.02, DoD Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy, 27 January 2017. DoDI 2060.03, Application of the National Security Exclusion to the Agreements Between the United States of America and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in the United States of America, 13 November 2008. DoDD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 9 January 2001. DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability Policy, 8 April 2015. DoDD S-3710.01, (U) National Leadership Command Capability (NLCC), 27 May 2015. DoDD 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP), 28 December 2009. DoDD 5160.05E, Roles and Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological Defense (CBD) Program (CBDP), 9 October 2008. DoDI 5210.88, Security Standards for Safeguarding Biological Select Agents and Toxins (BSAT), 19 January 2016. AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008. Program Action Directive (PAD) D16-01, Centralized Management of the Nuclear Enterprise, 2 August 2016. 10 USC § 8040, Oversight of Nuclear Deterrence Mission, 15 September 2016. AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibility for Weapons Systems, 8 March 2007. AFI 13-550, Air Force Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications (NC3), 2 October 2014. AFPD 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (CWMD) Enterprise, 17 June 2015. 26 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DoD Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010. The United States Air Force Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Master Plan FY 2010-2015, January 2010. 10 USC § 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, 10 August 1956. DoDD 3150.08, DoD Response to Nuclear and Radiological Incidents, 20 January 2010. DoDD 3150.02, DoD Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 12 May 2016. HAF MD 1-60, Assistant Chief of Staff of the Air Force Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration, 26 January 2015. 10 USC § 8033, Chief of Staff, 18 September 1947. AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 21 April 2015. 10 USC § 179, Nuclear Weapons Council, 3 January 2012. United States Air Force (USAF) Strategic Master Plan, May 2015. AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015. AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle, 18 May 2012. DoDM 3150.02, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program Manual, 15 January 2015. AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules, 25 February 2014. AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 15 August 2014. DoDM S-5210.41 Volume 1, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: The DoD Nuclear Weapon Security Program (U), 25 October 2016. DoDM 5210.42, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) Regulation, 27 June 2016. AFMAN 13-501, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) Regulation, 27 June 2016. AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 2 February 2016. AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 30 November 2016. AFI 91-108, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation and 91(B) Radioactive Material Safety Program, 12 February 2015. DoDI 6055.01, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 14 October 2014. DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH), 11 November 2008. DoDI 3150.10, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon Incidents, 2 July 2010. DoDM 3150.08, Nuclear Weapon Accident Response Procedures (NARP), 22 August 2013. AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013. 42 USC § 2011 et seq., Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 30 August 1954. AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 27 10 Code of Federal Regulations Part 1045, Nuclear Classification and Declassification, 15 January 1997. DoDI 5210.02, Access to and Dissemination of Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data, 3 June 2011. DoDM S-5210.41 Volume 2 (AFMAN 31-108), Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: General Nuclear Weapon Security Procedures, 11 August 2016. DoDI 8500.01, Cybersecurity, 14 March 2014. DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program, 10 November 2015. Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2016-90-1101, Air Force Strategic Planning Process, 3 October 2016. AFMC MD 421, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC), 13 January 2016. AFI 13-504, Key Nuclear Billet (KNB) Program, 26 March 2015. Adopted Forms Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009. Abbreviations and Acronyms ACC—Air Combat Command AETC—Air Education and Training Command AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command AFI—Air Force Instruction AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency AFIMSC—Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFNOC—Air Force Nuclear Operations Council AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center AFPC—Air Force Personnel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFPEO—Air Force Program Executive Office AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center AFSPC—Air Force Space Command AFTAC—Air Force Technical Applications Center AMC—Air Mobility Command 28 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 ANG—Air National Guard ARC—Air Reserve Component AU—Air University BSAT—Biological Select Agents and Toxins CAF—Combat Air Force C2—Command and Control CBD—Chemical and Biological Defense CBDP—Chemical and Biological Defense Program CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear CCDR—Combatant Commander CCMD—Combatant Command CFL—Core Function Lead CFSP—Core Function Support Plan CIO—Chief Information Officer CONOPS—Concept of Operations CONUS—Continental United States CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force CSS—Central Security Service CWMD—Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction DCA—Dual Capable Aircraft DEDB—Developmental Education Designation Board DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency DoD—Department of Defense DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction DoDM—Department of Defense Manual DOE—Department of Energy DOS—Department of State DRU—Direct Reporting Unit DT—Development Team DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency EA—Executive Agent AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 29 EMB—Executive Management Board EMP—Electromagnetic Pulse FA—Functional Authority FCG—Foreign Clearance Guide FCP—Foreign Clearance Program FOA—Field Operating Agency HAF—Headquarters Air Force IAW—In Accordance With ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile IG—Inspector General INRAD—Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation ITW/AA—Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System JS—Joint Staff KNB—Key Nuclear Billets MAJCOM—Major Command MD—Mission Directive NARP—Nuclear Weapon Accident Response Procedures NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization NC2—Nuclear Command and Control NC3—Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications NDO—Nuclear Deterrence Operations NEAC—Nuclear Enterprise Action Committee NEFA—Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority NIRI—Nuclear Issues Resolution and Integration Board NLCC—National Leadership Communications Capability NMCS—National Military Command System NMM—Nuclear Materiel Management NNSA—National Nuclear Security Administration NOB—Nuclear Oversight Board NSA—National Security Agency NSI—Nuclear Security Inspection 30 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 NSS—National Security Space NWC—Nuclear Weapons Council NWG—Nuclear Working Group NWSSG—Nuclear Weapons System Surety Group OEH—Occupational and Environmental Health OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense OT—Oversight Team PACAF—Pacific Air Forces PAD—Program Action Directive PNAF—Prime Nuclear Airlift Forces POTUS—President of the United States PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution PRA—Personnel Reliability Assurance PRAP—Personnel Reliability Assurance Program RegAF—Regular Air Force RTF—Response Task Force S&T—Science and Technology SCF—Service Core Function SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force SecDef—Secretary of Defense SLC3S—Senior Leader Command, Control, and Communications SLC3S-A—Senior Leader Command, Control, and Communications – Airborne SOH—Safety and Occupational Health SP3—Strategic Planning and Programming Process SSA—Support for Strategic Analysis STS—Stockpile-to-Target Sequence T&E—Test and Evaluation U.S—United States USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe USC—United States Code USecAF—Under Secretary of the Air Force USEUCOM—United States European Command AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 31 USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction WS3—Weapons Storage and Security System  32 AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 Attachment 2 AIR FORCE NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE GOVERNING BODIES A2.1.  Air Force Nuclear Enterprise Governance Structure.  The major deliberative bodies of the  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  Governance  Structure  (reference  Figure  A2.1.)  include  the Nuclear Oversight Board (NOB), Air Force Nuclear Operations Council (AFNOC), the Nuclear Issues Resolution and Integration (NIRI) Board, and the Nuclear Working Group (NWG). Figure A2.1.  Air Force Nuclear Governance Structure.   A2.2.  Nuclear  Oversight  Board  (NOB).  Co-chaired  by  the  SecAF  and  the  CSAF  and comprising MAJCOM commanders and other members as designated, the NOB provides senior-level executive oversight and strategic direction to the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  The NOB is the primary forum for Air Force Nuclear Enterprise issues related to policy, national strategy implementation,  organization,  assessments,  and  strategic  communications.    The  NOB  resolves Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  issues  and  ensures  senior-level  stewardship  of  the  Air  Force Nuclear  Enterprise.    AF/A10  will  work  with  MAJCOM  commanders  and  HAF  two-letters  to ensure all Air Force nuclear issues are brought forward for discussion and resolution. A2.2.1.  As the NOB Secretariat, AF/A10 will: A2.2.1.1.  Identify  and  vet  potential  issues  and/or  impacts  on  the  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise stemming from evolving national policies, strategies, studies, and reviews. A2.2.1.2.  Task and track issues and/or actions to appropriate Air Force organizations. A2.2.1.3.  Charter and chair the NIRI. A2.2.2.  Guidelines.  The NOB will meet at least two times each calendar year or as directed by the SecAF or the CSAF.  Meetings will be held  in  conjunction  with CORONA or other four-star forums, when practical. A2.2.3.  NOB  invitees  are  by  name.    If  a  named  invitee  is  unable  to  attend,  he/she  may nominate a general officer or civilian equivalent for SecAF/CSAF approval.  Once approved by the SecAF and the CSAF prior to the NOB, invitees will present their respective briefings.  AFPD13-5  29 JUNE 2017 33 Approved subject matter experts will be present only for their briefing and will depart upon completion. A2.3.  Air  Force  Nuclear  Operations  Council  (AFNOC).  Commander,  AFGSC  chairs  the AFNOC  with  support  and  input  from  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise  MAJCOM  and  stakeholder members.    The  AFNOC  chair  provides  updates  and  decisions  to  the  SecAF  and  the  CSAF  via AFGSC’s  governance  structure  and,  in  conjunction  with  AF/A10,  identifies  Air  Force  Nuclear Enterprise concerns and issues.  The AFNOC will accommodate CAF-related DCA for purposes of readiness, inspection, exercise, and resource adequacy assessments, and reporting. A2.3.1.  AF/A10  will  coordinate  with  the  AFNOC  to  ensure  a  synchronized  approach  to supporting the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  AF/A10 will refer to the AFNOC for resolution of  issues  involving  nuclear  operations,  readiness,  inspections,  and  exercises.    Commander, AFGSC will report resolution of such issues to the SecAF and the CSAF through the NOB. A2.4.  Nuclear  Issues  Resolution  and  Integration  Board  (NIRI).  Chaired  by  AF/A10,  the NIRI  provides  senior-level  Air  Force  oversight  and  strategic  direction  to  resolve  key  issues affecting the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  The NIRI brings decision-quality issues to the NOB and AFNOC to  address  issues and implements  direction from  the SecAF  and the CSAF.  HAF deputy  two-letters,  MAJCOM  vice  commanders,  and  others  as  designated  comprise  the  NIRI.  AFGSC,  as  a  Service  component  supporting  USSTRATCOM,  and  USAFE,  as  a  Service component  supporting  USEUCOM,  will  brief  the  NIRI  on  issues  affecting  their  areas  of responsibility. A2.4.1.  The NIRI will address issues arising from Air Force Nuclear Enterprise assessments, nuclear-related boards, commissions, panels, task forces, or any similar groups, and oversee implementation of direction and guidance given by the SecAF and the CSAF. A2.4.2.  Guidelines. A2.4.2.1.  The NIRI will meet at least quarterly and as directed by AF/A10. A2.4.2.2.  On a case-by-case basis, AF/A10 may invite other USAF, DoD, or Interagency organizations  as  “special  invitees.”    When  attending,  these  organizations  must  be represented by a general officer or civilian equivalent. A2.5.  Nuclear  Working  Group  (NWG).  As the “action arm” of the NIRI, the NWG ensures execution of NOB and NIRI tasks and integrates actions from other Air Force Nuclear Enterprise governing  bodies,  as  required.    The  z  reviews,  refines,  and  resolves  issues  or  refers  them  for NIRI, AFNOC, or NOB consideration.  The NWG provides O-6 level oversight of the Nuclear Enterprise  Health  Assessment  prior  to  presentation  to  the  NOB  and  NIRI.    AF/A10  will designate an O-6 or GS-15 as the NWG Chair.  The NWG comprises O-6s or civilian equivalents from across the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise.  AF/A10 is responsible for maintaining a current list of NWG representatives. A2.5.1.  The  NWG  and  Nuclear  Enterprise  Health  Assessment  working  groups  will  assist AFGSC in accomplishing its role as the NDO CFL.  