 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 25-1 15 JANUARY 2015 Logistics Staff WAR RESERVE MATERIEL   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-Publishing.af.mil downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   AF/A4LX  Supersedes:   AFPD 25-1, 8 November 2004 Certified by: AF/A4  (Lt Gen Judith Fedder, USAF) Pages: 9   This  policy  directive  implements  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DODI)  3110.06,  War Reserve  Materiel  (WRM)  Policy  and  DODI  3000.10,  Contingency  Basing  Outside  the  United States.    The  USAF  WRM  program  is  aligned  with  the  Air  Force  Strategic  Planning  System (AFSPS) that supports the National Security Strategy (NSS), National Defense Strategy (NDS), and  the  associated  Force  Planning  Construct  (FPC)  as  identified  in  Air  Force  Policy  Directive (AFPD)  10-6,  Capabilities-Based  Planning  and  Requirements  Development.  This  directive applies  to  all  Air  Force  organizations  including  the  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  and  Air  Force Reserve Command (AFRC).  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for Change  of  Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  Major  Command (MAJCOM)  publications/forms  managers.    Ensure  that  all  records  created  as  a  result  of processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  Air  Force  Manual (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  Air  Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).   SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    It  introduces several  major  transformational  changes  to  the  WRM  program  such  as  enterprise  management, capability requirements determination methodology and global management.    2  AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015 1.  Scope.  This  policy  directive  prescribes  WRM  planning  guidance,  roles  and  responsibilities, authorities  and  relationships  linking  the  WRM  program  with  AFSPS  and  logistics  enterprise management systems. 2.  Policy Statements.  It is AF policy that: 2.1.  The  WRM  program  supports  the  NDS  by  planning,  acquiring,  positioning,  and maintaining WRM assets to meet NDS objectives. 2.2.  WRM  provides  the  Air  Force  Forces  (AFFOR)  Combat  Support  (CS)  capability  to reduce  the  time  required  to  produce  an  operational  effect  across  the  full  range  of  military operations. 2.3.  WRM  requirements  can  be  characterized  as  either  starter  stock  (wartime  assets prepositioned  in  or  near  the  theater  of  operations)  or  swing  stock  (wartime  assets prepositioned ashore or afloat to meet wartime requirements for more than one contingency in  more  than  one  theater  of  operations)  prepositioned  globally  in  support  of  Combatant Command’s (CCMD) theater posturing and construct plans. 2.3.1.  WRM  is  divided  into  two  primary  types  consisting  of  equipment  items  and consumables used to support initial wartime operations until lines of communication are sustainable. 2.3.1.1.  To further emphasize WRM’s role as an CS enabler and to standardize force presentation  in  Operations  Plans  (OPLANs),  Concept  Plans  (CONPLANs),  and Integrated Security Constructs  (ISC), WRM equipment  is  packaged and managed in WRM  Unit  Type  Codes  (UTCs)  IAW  AFI  10-403,  Deployment  Planning  and Execution.    Under  the  WRM  program  this  includes  the  three  categories  of  WRM; Expeditionary  Air  &  Ground  Logistics  Equipment,  Basic  Expeditionary  Airfield Resources  (BEAR)  and  Fuels  Support  Equipment  (FSE)  Note:  Fuels  Operational Readiness Capability Equipment is the WRM portion of FSE. The UTCs are listed on the War Mobilization Plan (WMP) Volume 3, Part 2, UTC Availability (UTA), which is  the  official  Air  Force  data  source  for  identifying  the  availability  of  all  Air  Force UTCs. 2.4.  The  WRM  program  incorporates  guidance  in  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff Instruction  (CJCSI)  4310.01C,  Change  1,  Logistics  Planning  Guidance  for  Global Prepositioning  Materiel  Capabilities,  by  documenting  Air  Force  WRM  assets  assignment, allocation,  and  apportionment  in  the  WMP,  Volume  1,  Basic  Plan  and  Supporting Supplements, Logistics Annex E; Volume 3, Part 1, Combat and Support Forces; Volume 4, Wartime Aircraft Activity Report (WAAR) and Volume 5, Planning Factors and Data. 2.5.  WRM program also takes into consideration contingency basing capabilities outlined in DODI 3000.10 that are scalable and interoperable in the joint community. 2.6.  AFPD 90-11, Strategic  Planning  System, applies the AFSPS strategic analysis process to  the WRM program  to  develop  a  global posturing strategy directly supporting Combatant Commanders’  (CCDRs)  theater  posturing  and  campaign  planning.    This  process  includes active participation from Headquarters Air Force (HAF), WRM Global Manager (GM), Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC), MAJCOMs, and Component NAFs (C-NAFs) to provide AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015   3  operational capability and force structure analysis to include Chairman, Joint Chief of Staff, readiness, risk assessments, and operational availability. 2.7.  The AFSPS and WRM programs  incorporate the Guidance  for the Employment  of the Force  (GEF),  Defense  Planning  Guidance  (DPG),  Annual  Planning  and  Programming Guidance  (APPG),  and  Joint  Strategic  Capabilities  Plan  (JSCP)  to  cover  the  near,  mid  and far-term planning and programming periods. 2.8.  AFPD  10-6,  Capability-Requirements  Development,  and  AFI  10-601,  Operational Capability  Requirements  Development,  form  the  basis  of  the  WRM  program’s  capability-based  requirements  determination  methodology  supporting  the  Air  Force’s  Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) process. An annual WRM Theater Working Group (TWG) will convene to develop and implement an Air Force WRM Global Strategy. The  TWG  process  includes  reviewing,  validating,  posturing,  and  movement  planning  for WRM  assets  globally.  The  results  are  published  in  the  Global  Strategy  Document  for implementation. 2.9.  The  Air  Force  will  promulgate  specific  guidance  detailing  how  WRM  assets  will  be enterprise managed. 3.  Authorized Use of WRM. 3.1.  Wartime  Use.    Wartime  use  of  prepositioned  WRM  will  be  authorized  IAW  DODI 3110.06,  DODI  3000.10,  CJCSI  4310.01C,  Air  Force  Instructions  (AFI),  Global  Force Management  Implementation  Guidance  (GFMIG),  and  other  applicable  guidance.    WRM assets/UTCs are prepositioned to support CCMD assigned and/or apportioned equipment in the  GFMIG  and  the  WMP  Volume  3  or  the  Global  Force  Management  Allocation  Plan.  WRM  GM  releases  WRM  assets  for  wartime  use  upon  execution  of  applicable  OPLAN, CONPLAN  or  as  directed  by  Secretary  of  Defense  (SECDEF)  Deployment  Order (DEPORD)  or  Execution  Order  (EXORD).    A  Request  for  Forces/Capabilities,  through  the appropriate  joint  force  provider  is  required  for  requesting  wartime  use  of  WRM prepositioned in another CCMD's area of responsibility (AOR) or swing stocks prepositioned to  support  multiple  theaters  using  the  procedures  outlined  in  AFI  10-401,  Air  Force Operations Planning and Execution. 3.1.1.  A SECDEF decision will normally come as part of an Alert Order, DEPORD or an EXORD. 3.1.2.  Orders to employ and/or deploy afloat pre-positioning force may also come as part of  a  SECDEF  message  to  execute  a  functional  plan  and/or  OPLAN  that  includes designated  prepositioned  ships  as  outlined  in  CJCSI  4310.01C,  Change  1  and  other applicable guidance. 3.2.  Indirect  Mission  Support  Requests.    WRM  assets  may  be  used  for  peacetime  events supporting  theater  security  cooperation,  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  exercises  and  emergencies  as directed. Use of WRM assets for events other than wartime must be properly coordinated and approved IAW Air Force guidance. 4.  Roles and Responsibilities.  The following roles and responsibilities are established: AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015 4.1.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (AF/A4) directs the  WRM  program  and  provides  policy  to  achieve  Air  Force  objectives  for  planning, programming, budgeting, acquisition, distribution, storage, and maintenance of WRM. 4.1.1.  Oversees the implementation of this publication through one or more AFIs.   4   DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DODI 3000.4, Munitions Requirements Process, 24 September 2009 DODI 3000.10, Contingency Basing Outside the United States, 10 January 2013 DODI 3110.06, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Policy, 23 June 2008 DODI 4000.19, Support Agreements, 25 April 2013 CJCSI 4310.01C, Change 1, Logistics Planning Guidance for Global Pre-Positioned Materiel Capabilities, 30 July 2009 (CH1, 31 October 2011)  FY 2012 – 2013 Global Force Management Implementation Guidance, 15 November 2011 AFPD 10-6, Capability-Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009 AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006 AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012 AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 06 November 2013  AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 9 April 2014 AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, 8 August 2013 AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, 2 May 2005 AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACS—Agile Combat Support AFFOR—Air Force Forces AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command   6  AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015 AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center AFSPS—Air Force Strategic Planning System ANG—Air National Guard AOR—Area of Responsibility APPG—Annual Planning and Programming Guidance BEAR—Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources CCDR—Combatant Commander CCMD—Combatant Command CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction CONPLAN—Concept Plan C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force DEPORD—Deployment Order DOD—Department of Defense DODI—Department of Defense Instruction DPG—Defense Planning Guidance EXORD—Execution FPC—Force Planning Construct FSE—Fuels Support Equipment GEF—Guidance for the Employment of the Force GFMIG—Global Force Implementation Guidance GM—Global Manager HAF—Headquarters Air Force HQ—Headquarters IAW—In Accordance With ISC—Integrated Security Construct JSCP—Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan LOC—Lines of Communication MAJCOM—Major Command NDS—National Defense Strategy NSS—National Security Strategy OPLAN—Operational Plan Order AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015   7  OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution POM—Program Objective Memorandum RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SECDEF—Secretary of Defense TWG—Theater Working Group UTA—UTC Availability UTC—Unit Type Code WAAR—Wartime Aircraft Activity Report WMP—War Mobilization Plan WRM—War Reserve Materiel Terms Air Force Strategic Planning System (AFSPS)— The AFSPS consists of a series of processes, enabling methodologies, and complementary guidance and policy documents.  The AFSPS links the strategic planning process to capabilities-based planning (AFPD 10-6), capabilities and risk assessment, a strategic assessment process, and effective performance measurement. Annual  Planning  and  Programming  Guidance  (APPG)—The  APPG  is  the  principal document  conveying  guidance  on  force  planning  assumptions  and  resource  allocation.    The APPG  contains  guidance  for  planning  within  the  AFSPS  and  programming  activity  within  the AFCS.  The APPG provides direction for corporate decisions on required capacities, capabilities and risk mitigation as well as directed studies, analysis and Air Force leadership initiatives.  The APPG details force planning assumptions that form the basis for developing the Planning Force and additional force mix excursions. Defense  Planning  Guidance  (DPG)—The  DPG  guides  DOD  planning  and  programming  by establishing  the  Department’s  priority  missions,  force  sizing  construct,  major  force  planning assumptions, and key capabilities to help size and shape the future force. Enterprise  Management—The  seamless  management  and  integration  of  all  aspects  of infrastructure, for  successful development,  acquisition  ,  fielding,  and  sustainment  of  systems,  subsystems,  end-items,  and services within an enterprise to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs. resource  management,  and  business  systems  necessary Force  Planning Construct (FPC)—Established by the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review, the FPC  provides  capstone  guidance  for  overall  size  and  composition  of  the  joint  force  (capacity), types of forces and systems (capabilities), and the levels of effort (steady-state or surge) needed to implement the National Defense Strategy.  The FPC focuses on three fundamental elements: (1) homeland defense, (2) war on terror/irregular warfare, and (3) conventional campaigns. Global  Manager  (GM)—The  single  enterprise  leader  who  exercises  the  centralized  authority and  responsibility  for  the  management  and  integration  of  all  processes,  modernization,  and resources  for  development,  acquisition,  fielding,  sustainment,  deploying/redeploying  systems and reconstitution of subsystems and end-items to support the warfighter.   8  AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015 Global  Posturing  Strategy—Global  posturing  strategy  based  on  operational  needs,  optimized cost,  geographic  dispersal  that  mitigates  transportation  network  disruptions,  reduces  delivery timelines, improves global command and control, and facilitates anticipatory moves across AOR borders for the air component/AFFOR for planning. Guidance  for  Employment  of  the  Force  (GEF)—This  document  is  designed  to  translate DOD’s  National  Defense  Strategy  into  supporting  planning  and  action.    The  GEF  helps  guide planning  in  a  resource-constrained  environment  by  establishing  priorities  and  making  key assumptions  about  future  resources.    It  recognizes  the  rotational  demands  current  operations place upon the force as a whole and takes into account that these demands are strategic and will likely  continue.    The  GEF  also  acknowledges  the  interrelationship  between  planning,  force management, and global posture.  Guidance is designed to ensure the goals for all these areas are aligned and serve to mitigate risk to the greatest extent possible. Far-term  Planning—The  period  of  planning  beyond  15  years  in  the  future.    This  time  frame represents a period of uncertain threat environment.  It tests the bounds of revolutionary doctrine, tactics, and capabilities. Mid-term  Planning—The  period  of  planning  spanning  from  9  to  14  years  in  the  future.    This time  frame  represents  a  period  of  anticipated  threats,  environments,  doctrine,  tactics  and capabilities. Near-term  Planning—A period of planning that includes the execution year, budget  year, and POM period.  This period encompasses from current to 8 years into the future.  This time frame represents a period of known threats, environments, doctrine, tactics and capabilities. Planning,  Programming,  Budgeting,  and  Execution  (PPBE)—A  cyclic  process  containing four  distinct,  but  interrelated  phases:  Planning—produces  a  fiscal  forecast,  planning  guidance, and program guidance; Programming—creates the Air Force portion of the DOD's Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) by defining and examining alternative forces and weapons and support systems;  Budgeting—formulates  and  controls  resource  requirements,  allocation,  and  use;  and Execution—measures  and  validates  the  performance  of  the  planning,  programming,  and budgeting phases. Program Objective Memorandum (POM)—The primary document used by the Department of Defense  (DoD)  to  submit  programming  proposals.  The  POM  includes  an  analysis  of missions,  objectives,  alternative  methods  to  accomplish  objectives,  and  allocation  of resources.  It  presents  planned  activities  and  the  personnel  and  obligation  authority required over a 5—year period to build, operate, and maintain the proposed program. Strategic  Planning—The  process  of  systematically  evaluating  the  nature  and  direction  of  the strategic  environment,  identifying  long-term  goals  and  objectives,  and  developing  strategies  to reach  the  goals  and  objectives  to  support  resource  allocation.    Strategic  planning  embraces  a capabilities-based planning methodology and performance planning, and covers near-, mid-, and far-term planning horizons as determined by the needs of the specific organization. Theater Security Cooperation—Refers to those activities conducted with allies and friends, in accordance  with  SecDef  guidance  to:  build  relationships  that  promote  specified  U.S.  interest; build allied and friendly capabilities for self-defense and coalition operations; and provide U.S. forces with peacetime and contingency access. AFPD25-1  15 JANUARY 2015   9  Theater  Working  Group  (TWG)—The  event  that  determines  global  WRM  requirements  for the  Components  Commands.  Results  are  published  in  the  Global  Strategy  Document  for implementation Air Force wide. War  Reserve  Materiel  (WRM)—Consists  of  enterprise  managed,  strategic  positioned equipment and consumables that support initial operations and initial sustainment across the full range of military operations.  