BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 52-2 17 FEBRUARY 2016 Chaplain ACCOMMODATION OF RELIGIOUS PRACTICES IN THE AIR FORCE  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.  RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AF/HCX   Certified by: AF/HC  (Ch, Maj Gen Dondi E. Costin) Pages: 4   This Policy Directive establishes Air Force policy for accommodation of religious practices. This publication implements DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within  the  Military  Services.  To  the  extent  its  directions  are  inconsistent  with  other  Air  Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. It interfaces with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 52-1,  Chaplain  Corps;  AFI  1-1,  Air  Force  Standards;  AFI  36-2903,  Dress  and  Personal Appearance  of  Air  Force  Personnel;  AFI  36-2706,  Equal  Opportunity  Program  Military  and Civilian;  AFI  44-102,  Medical  Care  Management;  AFI  48-110,  Immunizations  and Chemoprophylaxis  for  the  Prevention  of  Infectious  Disease;  and  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN) 34-240, Food Service Program Management. It applies to all Regular Air Force (AF) members, members  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve  Command,  members  of  the  Air  National  Guard,  Air  Force Academy  and  Reserve  Officer  Training  Corps  cadets,  and  civilian  personnel.  Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  the  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance  (IAW)  with  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  the Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Refer  recommended  changes  and  conflicts  between  this  and  other  publications  to AF/HCX, 1380 Air  Force Pentagon, Room  4D286, Washington,  DC 20330-1380, on AF  Form 847, Recommendations for  Change of  Publication;  route AF  Forms  847 from the field  through the appropriate  functional  chain  of command. This  publication may not  be supplemented.  The use  of  the  name  or  make  of  any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.  2 1.  Policy. AFPD52-2  17 FEBRUARY 2016 1.1.  The  Air  Force  places  a  high  value  on  the  rights  of  Air  Force  members  to  observe  the tenets of their respective religions or to observe no religion at all. The Air Force is dedicated to maintaining an environment in which people can realize their highest potential.  1.2.  The  Air  Force  has  a  compelling  government  interest  in  mission  accomplishment, including the elements of mission accomplishment such as military readiness, unit cohesion, good order and discipline, health, and safety, on both the individual and unit levels. 1.3.  Unless  it  would  have  an  adverse  impact  on  military  readiness,  unit  cohesion,  or  good order  and  discipline,  commanders  and  supervisors  will  permit  individual  expressions  of sincerely held beliefs (conscience, moral principles, or religious). 1.4.  Airmen may  request  religious  accommodations from  military  policy, practice, or duty. Unless the request would have an adverse impact on military readiness, unit cohesion, good order,  discipline,  or  health  and  safety,  the  Air  Force  will  approve  in  a  timely  manner  an individual  request  for  accommodation  of  a  religious  practice.    Airmen  will  continue  to comply  with  the  directives,  instructions  and  lawful  orders  from  which  they  are  requesting accommodation unless and until the request is approved.  However, Airmen are temporarily exempted  from  compliance  in  the  cases  of  medical  practices  or  immunization  while  the request is pending. 1.5.  Commanders, Chaplain Corps personnel, medical providers, judge advocates, and other subject matter experts work as a team, as applicable, to determine the effect the request for accommodation of religious practices would have on the specific military policy, practice, or duty in  terms  of mission accomplishment,  including military readiness, unit cohesion,  good order, discipline, health and safety, or other military requirements. 1.6.  In  so  far  as  practicable,  an  Airman’s  expression  of  sincerely  held  beliefs  may  not  be used  as  the  basis  for  any  adverse  personnel  action,  discrimination,  or  denial  of  promotion, schooling, training, or assignment. 1.7.  Airmen whose requests for accommodation of religious  practices are approved will be informed  of  the  specific  elements  of  that  approval.  Specific  elements  will  include  that  the request will be reevaluated upon new assignment, transfer of duty station, or other significant change in circumstances. 1.8.  This policy directive does not preclude appropriate disciplinary or administrative action for misconduct  by  an Airman requesting religious accommodation that is  proscribed by the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), including actions and speech  that threaten good order and discipline. 2.  Responsibilities and Authorities. 2.1.  The Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC). 2.1.1.  In  coordination  with  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Manpower,  Personnel,  and Services, develops policy, guidance, and advises leadership for management of requests for  accommodation of religious practices  pertaining to religious apparel, grooming and personal appearance, worship practices, and dietary practices. AFPD52-2  17 FEBRUARY 2016 3 2.1.2.  In coordination with the Surgeon General, develops policy, guidance, and advises leadership  for  management  of  requests  for  religious  practices  pertaining  to  medical practices. 2.1.3.  Develops  policies  and  guidance  for  the  accommodation  of  chaplains’  religious beliefs. 2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1). 2.2.1.  Serves as the approval  authority for all requests for accommodation for religious practices pertaining to outdoor wear of religious apparel that cannot be concealed under approved uniform items and all other requests for accommodation for religious practices that require an exception to policy regarding grooming and personal appearance. 2.2.2.  Serves as the final appeal authority for all denials of requests for accommodation for  religious  practices  pertaining  to  wear  of  religious  apparel,  grooming  and  personal appearance, worship practices, and dietary restrictions.  2.3.  The Surgeon General (AF/SG). 2.3.1.  Serves as the final appeal authority for all denials of requests for accommodation for religious practices pertaining to medical practices.  AF/SG may delegate this authority no lower than the Air Force Medical Operations Agency commander (AFMOA/CC). 2.3.2.  Develops policies and guidance for the exemption of specific medical duties based on medical providers’ religious beliefs.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD52-2  17 FEBRUARY 2016 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References DoD Instruction 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military Services, 22 January 2014 AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, 7 August 2012 AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Corps, 19 December 2013 AFI 36-2706, Equal Opportunity Program Military and Civilian, 5 October 2010 AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011 AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 17 Mar 2015 AFI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis for Prevention of Infectious Disease, 7 October 2013 AFI 52-101, Chaplain Planning and Organizing, 5 December 2013 AFMAN 34-240, Food Service Program Management, 2 May 2005 Prescribed Forms None. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AF—Air Force AFI—Air Force Instruction AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive DoD—Department of Defense DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction MAJCOM—Major Command UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice  