 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 21-1 29 OCTOBER 2015 Maintenance MAINTENANCE OF MILITARY MATERIEL  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available on the e-Publishing web site at  http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:   SAF/AQD  Supersedes:   AFPD21-1, 25 February 2003 Certified by: SAF/AQ (William A. LaPlante) Pages: 9   This  Air  Force  Policy  Directive  (AFPD)  provides  direction  for  Air  and  Space  maintenance relative to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel; and  designates  Headquarter  Air  Force  (HAF)  functional  responsibilities  for  maintenance  as pertains  to  Air  Force  (AF)  Air,  Space,  Cyberspace,  Communications  (Comm),  Information Technology  (IT)  systems  and  associated  equipment/materiel;  excluding  commercial  general purpose  equipment,  commercial  business  systems  and  real  property  installed  equipment.    This AFPD  applies  to  all  military  and  civilian  AF  personnel;  i.e.,  major  commands  (MAJCOMs), direct reporting units, field operating agencies, and Air Reserve Components (Air Force Reserve and  Air  National  Guard);  and  other  individuals  or  organizations  as  required  by  binding agreement  or  obligation  with  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.    This  publication  may  not  be supplemented.    Any  change  or  waiver  must  be  approved  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (SECAF).    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route  Form  from  the  field  through  the  appropriate  Functional  Chain  of  Command.    Ensure  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance  with  (IAW)  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in accordance  with  Air  Force  Records  Information  Management  System  (AFRIMS)  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. AFPDs  that  this  Publication  has  correlation  with  include:  10-2,  Readiness;  10-4,  Operations Planning:  Air  and  Space  Expeditionary  Force  (AEF);  AFPD  10-6,  Capability  Requirements Development;  10-9,  Lead  Command  Designation  and  Responsibilities  for  Weapon  Systems; 1017,  Cyberspace  Operations;  10-21,  Air  Mobility  Lead  Command  Roles  and  Responsibilities; 13-5,  Air  Force  Nuclear  Enterprise;  16-4,  Accounting  for  Units,  Installations,  and  Aerospace Vehicles;  20-1/63-1,  Integrated  Life  Cycle  Management;  21-2,  Munitions;  33-1,  Cyberspace   2  AFPD21-1  29 October 2015 Support (will be superseded by 17-1, when published); 36-26, Total Force Development; 38-1, Organization  and  Unit  Designation;  90-8,  Environment,  Safety  &  Occupational  Health Management and Risk Management. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  substantially  revised  and  must  be  completely  reviewed.    Included  are changes  to  requirements  and  designated  responsibilities  of  HAF  and  MAJCOM  functional authorities  for  maintenance  of  military  materiel  associated  with  air,  space,  cyberspace,  IT  and comm systems. 1.  Policy. 1.1.  Organizational,  intermediate  and  depot  maintenance  capabilities  for  operational readiness  shall  be  maintained  to  ensure  effective  and  timely  response  to  peacetime operations,  mobilizations,  national  defense  contingencies  and  other  emergencies.    As  a minimum each capability will be able to: 1.1.1.  Organizational:  launch and recover sorties, maintain and repair materiel coded for organizational level repair. 1.1.2.  Intermediate:    repair  materiel  coded  for  organizational  and  intermediate  level repair in back shops and/or centralized repair facilities. 1.1.3.  Depot:  repair materiel coded for organizational, intermediate and depot; overhaul; rebuild; modify and manufacture. 1.2.  Maintenance shall be performed at the lowest level; consistent with available Technical Manuals (TMs), personnel, capacity, infrastructure, equipment and tools. 1.2.1.  Mission Generation Maintenance will consist of wing level capabilities required to safely launch, recover, configure, inspect, maintain and repair systems and equipment. 1.2.2.  A  Repair  Network  will  support  Mission  Generation  Maintenance  by  providing maintenance capabilities required to fulfill operational needs outside the capability and/or capacity of Mission Generation Maintenance activities. 1.3.  Maintenance  activities  at  all  levels  shall  be  resourced  to  optimize  weapon  system readiness to meet mission requirements. 1.4.  Maintenance organizations, tools, equipment, processes and skills shall be standardized to the maximum extent possible. 1.5.  Government maintenance organizations shall follow Government verified procedures to accomplish repairs. 1.6.  Economies and efficiencies shall be optimized by: 1.6.1.  Managing fleet/materiel health to provide long-term capability of equipment. 1.6.2.  Utilizing  arrangements such  as  performance based agreements and public-private partnerships. 1.6.3.  Allocating  existing  Government  capabilities  and  inventories  that  provide  best value for meeting mission needs. AFPD21-1  29 October 2015   3  1.6.4.  Reviewing maintenance workloads  and capacity utilization to identify economies of operations and/or improve responsiveness. 1.7.  Assign skilled personnel to fully support operational and expeditionary air forces. 2.  Roles  and  Responsibilities.  This  section  lists  roles  and  responsibilities  to  the  extent consistent with delegation in accordance with Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directives (MD)  1-10,  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Acquisition);  1-12,  Assistant  Secretary  of  the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller); 1-26, Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer; and 1-38, Deputy Chief, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection. 2.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) 2.1.1.  Develops maintenance policy and issues policy implementation direction to ensure enterprise  business  practices,  employment  of  organic  and  commercial  support, management processes, and integrated product support. 2.1.2.  Ensures  system  designs  optimize  maintenance  support  (e.g.,  reliability  and maintainability) and minimize the total life cycle costs. 2.1.3.  Ensures  system  maintenance  performance  is  validated  against  design  parameters throughout the system life cycle utilizing standardized reportable metrics. 2.1.4.  Ensures  maintenance  capability  compliance  with  Title  10  as  it  applies  to  AF Depots (Ref Chapter 146, Title 10 United States Code). 2.1.5.  Supports development of budget exhibits and documentation. 2.2.  Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6): 2.2.1.  Develops  policy  and  issues  policy  implementation  direction  for  maintenance  of Comm, IT and Cyberspace assets. 2.2.1.1.  Provides Functional Area/Career Field Management and issues guidance for training and equipping the maintenance workforce. 2.2.2.  Supports development of maintenance strategy, concept and planning for Comm, IT and Cyberspace Programs that: 2.2.2.1.  Provides affordable systems’ operational support. 2.2.2.2.  Mitigates risks to operational readiness. 2.2.2.3.  Ensures availability of metrics, data systems and guidance for Comm, IT and Cyberspace maintenance organizations to measure and report data to evaluate system availability. 2.2.3.  Advocates for Comm, IT and Cyberspace maintenance resources. 2.3.  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Financial  Management  and  Comptroller (SAF/FM): 2.3.1.  Manages all financial management, comptroller functions and activities to include those  associated  with  the  planning,  programming,  budgeting  and  execution  (PBE) processes.   4  AFPD21-1  29 October 2015 2.3.2.  Ensures  availability  of  financial  management  information  to  maintenance activities. 2.3.3.  Provides financial management guidance and policy implementation direction. 2.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4): 2.4.1.  Issues policy implementation direction for maintenance of air and space systems, munitions and associated equipment/materiel. 2.4.2.  Supports  development  of  maintenance  policy,  strategy,  concept  and  planning  for air and space systems, munitions and associated equipment/materiel to optimize mission generation and provide affordable and agile operational support. 2.4.3.  Oversees air equipment/materiel to: and space systems,  munitions assets, and associated 2.4.3.1.  Analyze maintenance trends. 2.4.3.2.  Advocate for resources to sustain maintenance operations. 2.4.3.3.  Provide  Functional  Area/Career  Field  Management  and  issues  guidance  for training and equipping the maintenance workforce. 2.4.3.4.  Ensure  maintenance  operations  are  supported  by  robust  management information. 2.4.3.5.  Ensure  availability  of  metrics,  data  systems  and  guidance  for  air  and  space maintenance  organizations  to  measure  and  report  data  to  evaluate  systems’ availabilities. 2.4.3.6.  Mitigate maintenance risks to operational readiness. 2.5.  Major Command Commanders (MAJCOMs): 2.5.1.  Provide manpower, resources and training consistent with the assigned mission. 2.5.2.  Interface/collaborate  with  Program  Managers in  developing  and implementing  maintenance  strategies  and  concepts  that  provide  for  the  long  term sustainment and enhanced capability of assigned systems and equipment. (PMs) 2.5.3.  Provide  interface  between  operational  units  and  PMs  to  achieve  expedient resolution  of reliability  and maintainability of fielded systems. technical  and  material  deficiencies to  optimize 2.5.4.  Analyze  maintenance  trends  and  mitigate  inefficiencies/risks  to  operational readiness and environmental, safety and occupational health risk. 2.5.5.  Provide  MAJCOM  specific  guidance,  funding  and  analysis systems/equipment availability. to  optimize 2.5.6.  Ensure units within wings are the primary activities executing organizational and intermediate maintenance of assigned air and space systems. 2.5.7.  Ensure  maintenance  activities  have  the  capability  to  meet  mission  generation requirements and simultaneously sustain preventative maintenance and training. AFPD21-1  29 October 2015   5  2.5.8.  Ensure  maintenance  activities  measure  and  report  maintenance  data  to  permit evaluation of maintenance performance and system/equipment availability. 2.5.9.  Review  maintenance  workloads  to  identify  economies  of  operations  and/or improve responsiveness. 2.6.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Commander (In addition to paragraph 2.5): 2.6.1.  Provides depot maintenance guidance to the Air Force Sustainment Center relative to execution of this AFPD and associated implementing AF direction. 2.6.1.1.  Optimizes efficiencies and effectiveness of depot maintenance activities. 2.6.1.2.  Ensures financial planning and budgets for depot maintenance requirements. 2.6.2.  Ensures  capital  investment  in  depot  operations  for  infrastructure,  equipment  and process improvement. 2.6.3.  Provides executive management for the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process. 2.6.4.  Provides  engineering,  maintenance,  corrosion  prevention  and  control,  and nondestructive inspection support to MAJCOMs and ANG. 2.7.  Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Commander (In addition to paragraph 2.5): 2.7.1.  Ensures Space and Cyberspace maintenance activities have the capability to meet mission requirements and simultaneously sustain preventive maintenance and training. 2.7.2.  Provides engineering and maintenance support to MAJCOMs and ANG for space systems. 2.7.3.  Supports/utilizes the AFMC-managed DSOR process for Space. 2.8.  Air  Education  and  Training  Command  (AETC)  Commander  (In  addition  to  paragraph 2.5):    Provides  formal  training  for  equipment  maintenance  technicians  to  meet  operational requirements.  DEBORAH LEE JAMES Secretary of the Air Force   6  AFPD21-1  29 October 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Chapter 146 of Title 10 United States Code, Contracting for Performance of Civilian Commercial or Industrial Type Functions  DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 March 2004 HAF MD 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), 24 June 2014 HAF MD 1-12, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller), 18 February 2010 HAF MD 1-26, Chief Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer, 5 February 2015 HAF MD 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection, 1 April 2015 AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012 AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009 AFPD 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March 2007 AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, 31 July 2012 AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, 30 April 2014 AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011 AFPD 16-4, Accounting for Units, Installations, and Aerospace Vehicles, 1 July 2014 AFPD 20-1/63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012 AFPD 21-2, Munitions, 17 December 2012 AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012 (will be superseded by 17-1, when published) AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011 AFPD 38-1, Organization and Unit Designation, 24 August 2011 AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 2 February 2012 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Prescribed Forms None Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AFPD21-1  29 October 2015   7  Abbreviation and Acronyms AF—Air Force AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force AETC—Air Education and Training Command AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System AFSPC—Air Force Space Command ANG—Air National Guard CIO—Chief Information Officer DoDD—Department of Defense Directive DSOR—Depot Source of Repair HAF—Headquarters Air Force (Secretariat and Air Staff) IAW—In Accordance With IT—Information Technology MAJCOM—Major Command MD—Mission Directive OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility PM—Program Manager RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SAF or SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force TM—Technical Manual TO—Technical Order Terms Air  Assets—Applicable  to  this  publication,  refers  to  air  breathing  aerial  systems,  collateral subsystems  and  end-items;  includes  ground-  based  equipment,  data  links,  mission  or  user terminals that directly supports air assets. Capability—Ability to execute a specified course of action. Communications  Assets—As  applicable  to  this  publication,  refers  to  communications  and electronics items that are not physically incorporated with or essential to operational readiness of air, space, cyberspace, or munitions assets.   8  AFPD21-1  29 October 2015 Cyberspace Assets—Those that makeup the global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent network of information technology infrastructures; including the internet,  telecommunications  networks,  computer  systems,  and  embedded  processors  and controllers. Depot  Maintenance—Maintenance  performed  on  materiel  requiring  major  overhaul  or  a complete rebuild of parts, assemblies, subassemblies, and end-items; including the manufacture of  parts,  modifications,  testing,  and  reclamation.    Depot  maintenance  also  serves  lower categories of maintenance by providing technical assistance and performing maintenance beyond their  capacity.    Depot  maintenance  provides  stocks  of  serviceable  equipment  by  using  more extensive facilities for repair than are available in lower level maintenance activities. End  Item—Final combination of end products, component parts, and/or materials that is ready for its intended use; e.g., aircraft, mobile machine shop. Fleet  Health—Overall  condition  of  air  and  space  systems,  equipment,  assets,  and/or  forces  to execute  a  long-term  course  of  action  (e.g.,  number  of  delayed  discrepancies,  number  of serviceable assets versus requirements, and/or level of training). Intermediate  Maintenance—Repair  coded  “intermediate” is  beyond  essential organizational  but  below  depot  capability  requirements  that  may  be  performed  on  or  off equipment,  but  generally  off-equipment,  by  organizational,  intermediate  or  depot  maintenance activities. that Life Cycle—From system concept development through disposal; total phases through which an item passes from the time it is initially developed until it is either consumed in use or disposed. Mission  Generation—Cumulative  efforts  to  launch  and  recover  sorties,  includes  associated activities required to sustain the capability to generate sorties. Maintenance—All  action  taken  to  retain  materiel  in  a  serviceable  condition  or  to  restore  it  to serviceability. It includes inspection, testing, servicing, classification as to serviceability, repair, rebuilding and reclamation. Materiel—All  items  necessary  to  equip,  operate,  maintain,  and  support  military  activities without distinction as to its application for administrative or combat purposes. Munition—Complete  device  charged  with  explosive,  propellants,  pyrotechnics,  initiating composition, or nuclear, biological, or chemical material for use in military operations. Organizational  Maintenance—Repair  coded  “organizational” is  below  essential intermediate  or  depot  capability  requirements  that  may  be  performed  on  or  off  equipment,  but generally on-equipment, by organizational, intermediate or depot maintenance activities. that Policy—Statement  of  important,  high-level  direction  that  guides  decisions  and  actions throughout  the  Air  Force.  (As  used  in  this  AFPD,  the  word  “policy”  refers  to  what  is  SECAF approved; i.e. AFPDs, AF Supplement to DoDDs, and AF Policy Memorandums.) Preventive  Maintenance—Care  and  servicing  by  personnel  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining equipment  in  satisfactory  operating  condition  by  providing  for  systematic  inspection,  detection and  correction  of  a  failure  at  a  beginning  stage  before  developing  into  major  defects  or  in advance of a predicable failure before occurrence. AFPD21-1  29 October 2015   9  Product  Support—Package  of  support  functions  required  to  field  and  maintain  the  readiness and operational capability of major weapon systems, subsystems, and components, including all functions related to weapon system readiness. Readiness—Ability of US military forces to fight and meet the demands of the national military strategy. Operational  readiness—The capability of a unit, weapon system, or equipment to perform the mission  or  functions  for  which  it  is  organized  or  designed.    Unit  readiness—the  ability  to provide capabilities required by the combatant commanders to execute their assigned missions. Repair—Restoration of an item to serviceable condition through correction of a specific failure or unserviceable condition. Risk—Probability and severity of loss linked to hazards. Risk  management—The  process  of  identifying,  assessing,  and  controlling  risks  arising  from operational factors and making decisions the balance risk cost with mission benefits. Space Asset—Any individual part of a space system: equipment that is or can be placed in space and/or terrestrially-based equipment that directly supports space activity. Space  Systems—Devices  and  organizations  forming  the  space  network.    These  consist  of: spacecraft;  mission  packages;  ground  stations;  data  links  among  spacecraft,  mission  or  user terminals; launch systems; and directly related supporting infrastructure. System—A functionally, physically, and/or behaviorally related group of regularly interacting or interdependent elements; group of elements forming a unified whole. Technical  Manual—Document  (electronic  or  non-electronic)  information  that  relates  to research, development, engineering, test, evaluation, production, operation, use and maintenance of  supplies  and  equipment.  A  TM  normally  includes  operational  and  maintenance  instructions, parts  lists  or  parts  breakdown,  and  related  technical  information  or  procedures  exclusive  of administrative  procedures.  Technical  Orders  (TOs)  that  meet  the  criteria  of  this  definition classify as TMs.  