April 1, 2011  "By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force Policy Directive 16-14, Information Protection, dated 28 September 2010, is void and hereby rescinded as of the date of its issuance and will be published at a later date. AFPD 16-14 superseded valid Air Force Policy Directives. If you downloaded or printed any copies of the AFPD, please destroy those copies. Also, if you've posted implementing instructions based on this void and rescinded AFPD 16-14, rescind those publications as of the date of issuance.  All Air Force Policy Directives superseded by the now invalid AFPD 16-14 (Air Force Policy Directives 33-2, 16-2, 14-3, 31-4, 31-5, 31-6 and 63-17) are hereby reinstated."  BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCEAIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 14-31 MAY 1998IntelligenceCONTROL, PROTECTION, ANDDISSEMINATION OF INTELLIGENCEINFORMATIONNOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).OPR: HQ USAF/XOIIS (Ms Elizabeth Hall) Supersedes AFPD 14-3, 10 June 1993.Certified by: HQ USAF/XOII (Mr Dennis Alvey)Pages: 6Distribution: FThis policy directive provides guidance for protecting intelligence information.  It defines authority lines,roles, and responsibilities for oversight and implementation of programs and procedures to ensure propercontrols and protection in preserving the integrity of intelligence collection systems. SUMMARY OF REVISIONSThis document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.Establishes requirement for AF development of automated systems for efficiency of SCI security man-agement.  Designates HQ USAF/XOIIS as Cognizant Security Authority for SCI.  Designates HQ USAF/XOIIS, Intelligence Security Division as SCI Security Policy Team, chartered to establish SCI controland release programs for AF.  Establishes one Base, one SSO policy.  Establishes HQ AIA/SO as OPR forcompilation and submission of quarterly intelligence information compromise and security educationtraining reporting.  Discontinues requirement for HAF-IN(Q) 9327, Results of Security ManagementInspection Report. 1. Intelligence information is crucial to an effective Air Force fighting force.  It must be controlled andprotected to preserve the integrity of the intelligence collection system.  Some intelligence informationdesignated as Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) requires additional control and protection.This Directive establishes policy for the control, protection, and dissemination of Air Force intelligenceinformation.2. The Air Force will maintain effective control of the dissemination of intelligence information amongUS intelligence community components, US forces outside the intelligence community requiring theinformation, foreign nationals, foreign governments, and contractors.3. Intelligence information will be secured, handled, and disseminated only by properly designated users.3.1. The Air Force will validate organizations authorized to receive and handle SCI, indoctrinate per-sonnel for access to SCI, and train them to protect against unauthorized disclosures.  In addition, the2AFPD14-3   1 MAY 1998Air Force will maintain SCI facilities and communications capabilities certified to support SCI han-dling.3.2. The Air Force will develop automated systems to sustain efficiency of intelligence security man-agement.3.3. The Air Force will develop procedures to report  compromises of classified intelligence informa-tion or  serious failures to comply with the provisions of security regulations which are likely to resultin compromise.  4. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:4.1. Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, DCS/Air and Space Operations, is theAir Force Senior Official of the Intelligence Community (SOIC), responsible for intelligence informa-tion security for the Air Force.4.2. HQ USAF/XOII (Associate Director for Intelligence) is the Air Force authority for issues involv-ing the release of intelligence information.4.2.1. HQ USAF/XOIIS is the Air Force Cognizant Security Authority (CSA) for SCI, the singleprincipal designated by the SOIC to serve as responsible official for SCI security program man-agement.   4.2.2. HQ USAF/XOIIS  will establish intelligence security control and release programs andoversee Major Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agency (FOA), and Direct Reporting Unit(DRU), intelligence security programs.  In addition, they will represent the Air Force in nationaland Department of Defense (DoD) intelligence security forums.4.3. Air Force activities will control intelligence information in accordance with governing directivesand report intelligence information security violations to HQ Air Intelligence Agency Security Office(AIA/SO). 4.3.1. Air Force activities will conduct quarterly security awareness training with emphasis onreducing or preventing recurrence of violations.  MAJCOM SSOs will report number of personnelreceiving security education training per quarter to HQ AIA/SO.    HQ AIA/SO will use trainingsatistics to identify and document correlations between security violation trends and the conductsecurity education training.     4.4. The host Major Air Command (MAJCOM) for an installation will ensure SCI communicationsand security management are provided as necessary to support any Air Force unit mission on thatinstallation.  The host command may contract with a tenant organization to provide SCI communica-tions and SCI security management oversight at an Air Force installation for the host command.  Ten-ant organizations will work with the host MAJCOM to ensure there is only one AF SSO perinstallation.  The Air Force Office of Special Investigations will retain a separate SSO to support itscounterintelligence and force protection responsibilities.   4.5. Commanders/Senior Intelligence Officers (SIO) will ensure facilities where intelligence infor-mation is used meet security requirements and that personnel are trained to protect the information.Commanders/Senior Intelligence Officers may enter into agreements (Memorandums Of Agreement)with other United States security organizations to provide or receive security services.  The sharing orconsolidation of security resources and skills required to meet the needs of the participant’s individualgoverning directives is encouraged.AFPD14-3   1 MAY 199834.6. HQ USAF/XOIIS will establish objectives and requirements for the electronic exchange and dis-semination of security and intelligence information through automated security management systems.5. This policy applies to all Air Force activities and personnel who produce, receive, or disseminate intel-ligence information.5.1. Air Force Service Cryptologic Elements will also comply with National Security Agency direc-tives.  Conflicts will be resolved by the Cognizant Security Authorities. 6. This policy directive implements Director of Central Intelligence Directive (DCID) 1/7, Security Con-trols on the Dissemination of Intelligence Information; DCID 1/14, Personnel Security Standards and Pro-cedures Governing Eligibility for Access to SCI; DCID 1/16, Security Policy on Intelligence Informationin Automated Systems and Networks; DCID 1/19, Security Policy for Sensitive Compartmented Informa-tion; DCID 1/21, Physical Security Standards for Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities; andNational Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction, (NTSSI) No. 7000.7. This policy directive interfaces with DoD S-5105.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented InformationAdministrative Security Manual; AFPD 31-4, Information Security;  AFI 14-302, Control, Protection,and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information; and AFI 14-303, Release of Collateral Intel-ligence to US Contractors. 8. See attachment 1 for measures used to assess compliance with this policy. F. WHITTEN PETERSActing Secretary of the Air Force4AFPD14-3   1 MAY 1998Attachment 1 MEASURING AND DISPLAYING POLICY EFFECTIVENESS A1.1. The Air Force will measure the success of controlling, protecting, and disseminating intelligenceinformation by evaluating the number of intelligence information compromises occurring quarterly .  Thedata will be displayed on bar charts that show the number of certain, probable, or possible compromisesand the category of each compromise.  Analysis will focus on identifying trends in categories of compro-mise.  The objective is to reduce the number of intelligence information compromises.  A1.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will report all SCI security violations as defined in DoDS5102.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative Security Manual, and AFMAN14-304, The Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information. A1.3. HQ AIA/SO will provide a two-part quarterly report, RCS: HAF-XO(Q) 9326, that identifiestrends in security violations and the impact of  security education and training programs on security vio-lation trends.   Part I:  Compiled data from initial and follow-up security violations reports received fromMAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs.   Part II:  Compiled data reflecting number of individuals receiving  secu-rity education training.  Submit quarterly Intelligence Information Compromise and Security EducationReport to HQ USAF/XOIIS.  This report is designated emergency status code D.  Immediately discon-tinue reporting data requirements during emergency conditions.AFPD14-3   1 MAY 19985Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Number of Security Incidents.Number of Intelligence Information CompromisesOne set of graphs would reflect SCI incidents and another would reflect Collateral Intelligence Informa-tion incidents.  (The collateral metrics would be caveated to indicate that compromises reflected will be included in reporting required by AFPD 31-4)6AFPD14-3   1 MAY 1998Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Number of Individuals Receiving Security Education Training.Chart will depict compilation of quarterly security education training  received.  The categories here mir-ror the categories assigned to security incidents.  Actual training reported will not always be one of these categories by name.   The specific training conducted will be assigned the category it best serves.  