 BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 51-2 4 NOVEMBER 2011 Law ADMINISTRATION OF MILITARY JUSTICE  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. OPR:   AFLOA/JAJM Supersedes:   AFPD 51-2,  7 September 1993 Certified by: AF/JA  (Lt Gen Richard C. Harding) Pages: 7   This  Directive  establishes  the  framework  for  administering  military  justice  in  the  Air  Force under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and the Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM).  This  Directive  implements  DoDD  1030.1,  Victim  and  Witness  Assistance;  DoDI  5030.70, Coordination  of  Significant  Litigation  and  Other  Matters  Involving  the  Department  of  Justice; and  DTM  08-009,  UCMJ  Jurisdiction  Over  DoD  Civilian  Employees,  DoD  Contractor Personnel,  and  Other  Persons  Serving  with  or  Accompanying  the  Armed  Forces  Overseas During  Declared  War  and  in  Contingency  Operations.    It  applies  to  all  organizational  entities within  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,  including  military  members  of  the  Air  Force  Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) while in Federal service.  Send all recommended changes or  comments  about  this  publication  to  AFLOA/JAJM,  1500  West  Perimeter  Road,  Suite  1130, Joint  Base  Andrews  Navy  Air  Facility  Washington,  MD  20762,  through  appropriate  channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  the  Air  Force  Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include updates to organizational names, office symbols and publication references; deletion of references  to  policy  letters;  clarification  regarding  jurisdiction  over  AFR,  ANG,  and  Retired military  members;  and  updates  to  the  policies  on  pretrial  agreements  and  Air  Force  action following state, federal, and foreign court prosecutions.  In accordance with AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation,  specific  metrics  for  courts-martial  and  nonjudicial  punishment  have  been  omitted   2  AFPD51-2  4 NOVEMBER 2011 and  now  may  be  found  in  AFI  51-201,  Administration  of  Military  Justice,  and  AFI  51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, respectively. 1.  Good  order  and  discipline  are  essential  to  an  effective  fighting  force.  Impartial,  timely military  justice  helps  sustain  good  order  and  discipline.  This  Directive  establishes  policies  for implementing  a  uniform  military  justice  system  that  promotes  ethical  standards,  deters misconduct, and increases mission readiness. 2.  All practitioners of military justice will be ethical and civil in conducting their business. 3.  The  Judge  Advocate  General  (TJAG)  will  organize  the  military  justice  components  of  The Judge Advocate General’s Corps to maintain their independent and adversarial interests. 4.  All trial judges and appellate judges, and all persons who act in a quasi-judicial capacity, must be free to make their judicial determinations with absolute independence. 5.  Defense counsel, at trial and the appellate level, will perform their defense functions with the sole  objective  of  furthering  the  interests  of  their  defense  clients,  consistent  with  their  ethical obligations and their status as officers of the court. 6.  Allegations of charges under the UCMJ will be processed without undue delay and promptly disposed  of  by  the  appropriate  commanders.  Processing  goals  may  be  established  to  help manage the military justice process, but they may not drive substantive decisions. 7.  Air Force members will not be tried by court-martial or punished under Article 15, UCMJ, for substantially the same act or omission for which a state, Federal, or foreign court has tried them, unless the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) grants an exception to this policy. 8.  Caution should be used whenever a pretrial agreement (PTA) is being considered.  A PTA is appropriate  when  there  are  benefits  to  the  government  and  the  accused.  PTAs  should  not  be entered  into  by  the  government  solely  for  expediency,  i.e.  to  dispose  of  a  case  quickly  with minimal consideration for the consequences of the agreement. 9.  Military justice cases involving espionage, subversion, aiding the enemy, sabotage, spying, or violation  of  punitive  regulations  and  criminal  statutes  concerning  classified  information  or  the foreign  relations  of  the  United  States  must  be  reported  to  the  Air  Force  Legal  Operations Agency, Military Justice Division (AFLOA/JAJM) as Special Interest cases.  The Chief, Military Justice  Division  must  grant  permission  to  enter  into  pretrial  agreement  discussions  in  cases involving  such  offenses.    AFLOA/JAJM  will  coordinate  as  required  with  the  Department  of Justice (DoJ) to ensure actions taken on such cases comply with Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction  5525.07,  Implementation  of  the  MOU  Between  Department  of  Justice  and Department of Defense Relating to the Investigation and Prosecution of Certain Crimes. 10.  Article  58a(a),  UCMJ,  will  not  operate  to  automatically  reduce  the  grade  of  an  enlisted member.  All reductions in grade will be based upon adjudged and approved sentences. 11.  Commanders will use nonjudicial punishment, under Article 15, UCMJ, as a prompt way to maintain good order and discipline and promote positive behavior changes in Air Force members without  the  stigma  of  a  court-martial  conviction.  Commanders  should  consider  nonpunitive discipline before resorting to nonjudicial punishment, but are not required to do so. AFPD51-2  4 NOVEMBER 2011   3  12.  Convening  authorities  must  obtain  DoJ  authorization  through  AFLOA/JAJM  to  grant immunity to witnesses who are not subject to the UCMJ or who are subject to DoJ prosecutorial interest. 13.  When determining whether to release  information regarding a criminal proceeding, the Air Force will balance public interest in the administration of justice against the accused’s rights to a fair trial and privacy. 14.  SECAF is the only individual in the Department of the Air Force who may decide whether to claim the privilege from disclosure of classified information under Military Rule of Evidence 505. 15.  Exercise of Jurisdiction Over Reserve, Guard, and Retired Members: 15.1.  Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard members who are recalled to active duty for court-martial  may  not  be  sentenced  to  confinement  or  be  required  to  serve  a  punishment consisting  of  any  restriction  on  liberty  during  the  recalled  period  of  duty  without  prior SECAF approval. 15.2.  Retired Air Force members who are subject to UCMJ jurisdiction will not be tried by court-martial unless the alleged misconduct clearly links them to the military or is adverse to a  significant  military  interest  of  the  United  States.    SECAF  approval  is  required  prior  to preferral of charges against retired members unless the statute of limitations for the alleged misconduct  is  set  to  immediately  expire.    In  such  cases,  charges  should  be  preferred  and SECAF approval should be obtained as soon as possible. 16.  For all military justice purposes, AFLOA/JAJM will be considered part of the Office of The Judge Advocate General. 17.  This Directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities: 17.1.  SECAF  or  the  SECAF’s  designee  determines  which  of  the  commanders  designated under the UCMJ to convene special or general courts-martial may exercise those powers. 17.2.  TJAG  issues  Air  Force  publications  consistent  with  this  AFPD,  establishing procedures and delegations needed to uniformly administer military justice in the Air Force.  Commanders, TJAG, and Staff Judge Advocates (SJA) carry out these procedures consistent with the policy  established in this AFPD. 17.3.  SECAF  delegations  and  directives  concerning  military  justice  will  be  maintained  at AFLOA/JAJM and/or published in Air Force policy directives or instructions, as appropriate. 17.4.  All  Air  Force  personnel  having  official  contact  with  victims  and  witnesses  in  the administration  of  military  justice  will  treat  them  with  dignity  and  respect,  provide  timely access  to  appropriate  treatment  and  services,  and  help  mitigate  the  physical,  psychological, and  financial  hardships  suffered  from  offenses  punishable  under  the  UCMJ  and  committed by  a  person  subject  to  the  UCMJ.    The  personal  lives  of  victims  and  witnesses  should  be disrupted as little as possible in administering military justice.     4  AFPD51-2  4 NOVEMBER 2011 18.  This Directive does not confer any rights, benefits, or form of due process on any individual nor  does  it  create  any  obligations  for  the  United  States,  the  Department  of  Defense,  or  the  Air Force.  MICHAEL B. DONLEY Secretary of the Air Force   AFPD51-2  4 NOVEMBER 2011   5  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References Uniform Code of Military Justice Manual for Courts-Martial, United States (2008 Edition) AFPD 36-60, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 28 March 2008 AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010 AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010 AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 21 December 2007 (Incorporating Change 1,      3 February 2010 and Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 51-201, 4 April 2011)  AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 7 November 2003 (Incorporating through Change 3, 11 August 2011) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 DoD Directive 1030.1, Victim and Witness Assistance, 13 April 2004 DoD Directive 5525.07, Implementation of the MOU Between Department of Justice and  Department of Defense Relating to the Investigation and Prosecution of Certain Crimes, 18 June 2007 DoD Instruction 5030.7, Coordination of Significant Litigation and Other Matters Involving the Department of Justice, 22 August 1988 DTM 08-009, UCMJ Jurisdiction Over DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and Other Persons Serving with or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas During Declared War and in Contingency Operations, 10 March 2008 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms AFI—Air Force Instruction AFMAN—Air Force Manual AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency AFR—Air Force Reserves AMJAMS—Automated Military Justice and Management System ANG—Air National Guard DoD—Department of Defense DoJ—Department of Justice   6  AFPD51-2  4 NOVEMBER 2011 MCM—Manual for Courts-Martial RDS—Records Disposition Schedule SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force SJA—Staff Judge Advocate TJAG—The Judge Advocate General UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice Terms Policy—Statements  of  important,  high-level  direction  that  guide  decisions  and  actions throughout  the  Air  Force.    Policy  translates  the  ideas,  goals,  or  principles  contained  in  the mission, vision, and strategic plan into actionable directives.  AFPD51-2  4 NOVEMBER 2011   7  Attachment 2 MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY A2.1.  TJAG  will  assess  compliance  with  this  Directive  by  measuring  the  administration  of military  justice  in  two  key  areas:    (1)  timeliness of  courts-martial  and  nonjudicial  punishments under  Article  15,  UCMJ,  and  (2)  deterrent  effectiveness  as  shown  through  courts-martial  and nonjudicial  punishments  rates  per  thousand.    Each  legal  office  will  report  measurements  to AFLOA/JAJM  through  the  Automated  Military  Justice  Analysis  and  Management  System (AMJAMS). A2.2.  Timeliness.  The policy to promptly address and resolve allegations under the UCMJ will be measured by assessing the number of days from the date of discovery of the alleged offense until completion of the military justice action.  Commanders and SJAs at all levels must ensure timely processing of all military justice actions. A2.2.1.  To achieve maximum disciplinary and rehabilitative effect, nonjudicial punishment should normally be offered to an individual as soon as possible after facts become known by the  member’s  commander  which  indicate  that  offenses  may  have  been  committed.  Compliance with this policy will be measured by assessing the average number of days from the  date  of  discovery  of  the  offense  to  the  date  nonjudicial  punishment  is  offered,  and  the average  number  of  days  from  the  date  nonjudicial  punishment  is  offered  to  the  date nonjudicial punishment is completed and found legally sufficient by the servicing SJA. A2.2.2.  Undue delays in bringing a case to trial present hardships to victims and witnesses, as  well  as  the  accused.    Similarly,  undue  delays  in  post-trial  processing  of  cases  are disruptive  to  the  lives  of  both  victims  and  those  accused  and  are  costly  to  the  Air  Force.  Therefore, expeditious processing of courts-martial is essential.  Compliance with this policy will be measured by assessing the average number of days from the date of discovery of the offense until preferral; the average number of days from the date of preferral to the date of action  by  the  convening  authority;  and  the  average  number  of  days  from  the  date  of  the action  by  the  convening  authority  and  the  date  the  record  of  trial  is  forwarded  to AFLOA/JAJM.    SJAs  are  encouraged  to  analyze  available  statistical  data  relating  to  the segments  of  court  processing  over  which  they  have  significant  control  to  highlight  specific areas they can improve. A2.3.  Deterrent  Effectiveness.    Effective  discipline  should  deter  future  misconduct.  Analyzing the  frequency  of  courts-martial  and  nonjudicial  punishment  use  compared  to  the  Air  Force population can, over time, reflect deterrent effectiveness.  Significant departures from trends may reflect disproportionate use or non-use of military justice tools. A2.3.1.  Courts-martial rates per thousand can indicate the deterrent effect of this disciplinary tool.  Rates of courts-martial per thousand Air Force members can, over time, reflect trends as  to  commanders’  need  to  use  the  court  system  to  address  serious  breaches  of  military standards. A2.3.2.  Nonjudicial  punishment  rates  per  thousand  can  indicate  the  deterrent  effect  of  this disciplinary  tool.    Rates  of  nonjudicial  punishments  per  thousand  Air  Force  members  can, over  time,  reflect  trends  as  to  commanders’  need  to  use  nonjudicial  punishment  to  address minor breaches of military standards. 