BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-6 19 JANUARY 2017 Financial Management BUDGET  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/FMB Policy and Fiscal Control    (P&FC) Supersedes:  AFPD65-6, 1 May 1998  Certified by: SAF/FMB  (Maj Gen James F. Martin, Jr.) Pages: 6    This Air Force (AF) Policy Directive (PD) (AFPD) implements DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense  Financial  Management  Regulation,  Volume  2,  Budget  Formulation  and  Presentation, and Volume 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Anti-deficiency Act Violations, and Volume 15, Security Cooperation  Policy ; portions of Title 31, U.S.C., Chapter 13, Appropriations, and Chapter  15,  Appropriation  Accounting;  and  Title  10  U.S.C.,  Sections  8016,  Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force and 8022, Financial Management.  This directive applies to all Air Force organizations and activities, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve. This directive  establishes policies regarding the use of Financial Management  Budget  programs and ensures  public  resources  are  used  efficiently,  effectively,  economically,  and  legally  throughout the Air Force. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  Air  Force  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of Publication;  route  AF  Forms  847  from  the  field  through  appropriate  functional’s  chain  of command.      The  authorities  to  waive  wing/unit  level  requirements  in  this  publication  are identified  with  a  Tier  (“T-0,  T-1,  T-2,  T-3”)  number  following  the  compliance  statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the  appropriate  Tier  waiver  approval  authority,  or  alternately,  to  the  Publication  OPR  for  non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication  are  maintained  in  accordance  with  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records  and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The use of the name or mark of 2 AFPD65-6  19 JANUARY 2017 any  specific  manufacturer,  commercial  product,  commodity,  or  service  in  this  publication  does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  AFPD  removed  attachment  2,  Measures  of  Compliance.  These  metrics  are  maintained internally within SAF/FM Directorates. 1.  Overview.  This  Directive  establishes  policy  for  AF  Financial  Management  and  Budget procedures. 2.  Policy.  It is AF policy that: 2.1.  The AF will construct and advocate budgets which provide the warfighting Combatant Commanders  (COCOMs)  the  resources  required  to  execute  USAF  program  and  mission responsibilities derived from the National Military Strategy and Defense Planning Guidance. Air  Force  budgets  should  be  credible,  defensible  to  the  Congress,  executable,  and  should contribute  to  cost-effective  performance  of  the  Air  Force’s  mission.    In  achieving  this  end, the  Air  Force  needs  budget  policies  to  safeguard  its  commitment  to  lawful,  effective,  and efficient  use  of  appropriated  funds.    This  directive  establishes  policies  for  complying  with applicable  laws  and  Department  of  Defense  (DoD)  funding  guidance  in  all  phases  of  the budget cycle, and which govern the formal process of prioritizing and applying appropriated funds to support Air Force missions. (T-3) 2.2.  The  AF  ensures  appropriated  funds,  including  expired  funds  and  Air  Force  Working Capital  Fund  (AFWCF)  accounts,  are  used  only  for  authorized  purposes,  as  enacted  by Congress  and  implemented  under  DoD  and  Air  Force  directives  and  instructions.  Also,  the Air Force ensures appropriated funds are used only in the amounts and for the time periods authorized by the applicable budget authorization, allocation, and allotment. (T-3) 2.3.  The AF makes sure that AF Form 401, Budget Authority (BA)/Allotment (A) and AF Form  1449,  Operating  Budget  Authority  (OBA)  and  the  AFWCF’s  Annual  Operating Budget  (AOB)  documents  issued  to  subordinate  activities  do  not  exceed  the  authority received  by  the  issuing  activity.  BAs,  OBAs,  and  AOBs  issued  must  be  consistent  with budget  and  obligation  authority  received  with  respect  to  classifications,  authorities,  and constraints. (T-3) 2.4.  The  AF  takes  timely  and  aggressive  action  to  identify,  investigate,  report,  and  process Anti-Deficiency Act (ADA) violations.  (T-3) 2.5.  Subject  to  limitations  and  restrictions  established  by  the  legislative  and  executive branches  of  the  Government  and  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense,  the  AF  provides optimum funding flexibility at all levels. (T-0) 2.6.  In  case  of  conflicts  with  other  AF  directives,  the  funding  propriety  rules  stated  herein and  in  the  AF  Instruction  (AFI)  65-601,  Volume  1,  Budget  Guidance  and  Procedures,  take precedence. (T-3) 3.  Responsibilities. 3.1.  Under  the  authority  and  direction  of  the  SAF/FM,  the  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary, Budget (SAF/FMB): AFPD65-6  19 JANUARY 2017 3 3.1.1.  Establishes  Air  Force  budget  policies  and  procedures, formulation, justification and execution. (T-2) including  budget 3.1.2.  Provides  guidance  concerning  organizational  and  appropriation responsibilities and issues related to the use of funds. (T-2) funding 3.1.3.  Develops  and  maintains  the  budget  structure  and  associated  data  elements  and codes. (T-2) 3.1.4.  Chairs  the  Air  Force  Board  for  purposes  of  budget  formulation  and  execution  to include the  Budget  Estimate  Submission,  Budget  Review  Cycle,  Omnibus Reprogramming  Exercise,  and  President’s  Budget  (PB).  Reviews  recommendations  of the  Investment  Budget  Review  Committee  (IBRC),  the  Operating  Budget  Review Committee (OBRC), and the Personnel Budget Review Committee (PBRC). (T-2) 3.2.  Under  the  authority  and  direction  of  the  SAF/FM,  the  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary, Financial Operations (SAF/FMF) establishes policy for and executes the Air Force’s program for identifying, investigating, reporting, and processing ADA violations. (T-2) 3.3.  Air Force commanders and managers use their organizations' appropriated funds legally, effectively, and efficiently. (T-2) 3.4.  Commanders  at  all  levels  establish  and  maintain  financial  management  structures  to determine funding priorities, to approve execution plans, and to ensure that funding resources are allocated and executed legally, effectively, and efficiently. (T-2) 3.5.  Air  Force  Installation  and  Mission  Support  Center  (AFIMSC),  Direct  Reporting  Unit, and  Field  Operating  Agency  financial  management  organizations  will  have  primary responsibility for training, developing, and maintaining a roster of trained ADA investigating officers;  ensuring  investigating  officer  independence;  providing  expert  technical  assistance, as  necessary,  to  investigating  officers;  advising  the  Commander  on  the  financial  and  legal sufficiency  of  Reports  of  Violation;  and  developing  and  maintaining  an  ADA  awareness program to include lessons learned. (T-2) 4.  See  AFI  65-601,  Volumes  1  through  3,  for  related  instructions.  Also  see  appropriate regulations  maintained  by  the  Defense  Finance  and  Accounting  Service,  for  related  accounting policy.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force 4 AFPD65-6  19 JANUARY 2017 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013 AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012 AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations, 18 May 2012 AFI 65-601, Volume 3, The Air Force Budget Corporate Process, 8 August 2011 DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation, Volume 2, Budget Formulation and Presentation, October 2008, Volume 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Anti-deficiency Act Violations, May 2015 DoD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation, Volume 15, Security Cooperation Policy, August 2015 Title 31, U.S.C. Chapter 13, Appropriations, and Chapter 15, Appropriation Accounting Title 10, U.S.C. Sections 8016, Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force and 8022, Financial Management Prescribed Forms AF Form 401, Budget Authority (BA)/Allotment (A) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication AF Form 1449, Operating Budget Authority (OBA Abbreviations and Acronyms A—Allotment ADA—Anti-Deficiency Act AFI—Air Force Instruction AFIMSC—Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center AFWCF—Air Force Working Capital Fund BA—Budget Authority COCOM—Combatant Commander DoD—Department of Defense IBRC—Investment Budget Review Committee OBA—Operating Budget Authority OBRC—Operating Budget Review Committee PB—President’s Budget PBRC—Personnel Budget Review Committee AFPD65-6  19 JANUARY 2017 5 PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution TWCF—Transportation-Working Capital Fund USAF—United States Air Force U.S.C—United States Code Terms Air Force Working Capital Fund (AFWCF)—The AFWCF conducts business in two primary areas:  depot maintenance and supply management. Maintenance depots provide the equipment, skills,  and  repair  services  necessary  to  keep  forces  operating  worldwide.    Supply  management activities  procure  and  manage  inventories  of  consumable  and  reparable  spare  parts  required  to keep  all  force  structure  elements  mission  ready.    The  Transportation  Working  Capital  Fund (TWCF) is a part of the AFWCF budget submission.  Though the Air Force is charged with cash oversight,  United  States  Transportation  Command (USTRANSCOM)  has  operational responsibility. Antideficiency  Act  (ADA)—Legislation  enacted  by  Congress  to  prevent  the  incurring  of obligations  or  the  making  of  expenditures  (outlays)  in  excess  of  amounts  available  in appropriations or funds; to fix responsibility within an agency for the creation of any obligation or the making of any expenditure in excess of an apportionment or reapportionment or in excess of other subdivisions of funds; and to assist in bringing about the most effective and economical use of appropriations and funds. (See Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation, Volume 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Antideficiency Act Violations). Budget  Authorization,  Allocation  and  Allotment—Budget  authorizations  represent  the approved  financial  program  with  which  the  recipient  can  plan  to  accomplish  the  mission  in  an orderly manner.  An allocation is a funding document issued by SAF/FMB to a major command or field operating agency which represents cash for commitment or obligation.  An allotment is similar to an allocation except that it is issued by a major command or field operating agency to subordinate units. Budget  Authority  (BA),  Operating  Budget  Authority  (OBA)  Document—BA  and  OBA documents are the official  documents that  convey  obligation  and expense authority for a  given fiscal year. Limitations and or restrictions are identified on this document.  The OBA document (AF  Form  1449  or  mechanized  equivalent)  is  used  for  the  Operation  and  Maintenance appropriations  (USAF  and  AF  Reserve).    The  Budget  Authority  document  (AF  Form  401)  is used for other appropriations. Canceled  Accounts—An  appropriation  or  fund  which  is  no  longer  available  for  obligation adjustments  or  payments.    Appropriations  are  closed  or  canceled  at  the  end  of  the  five  year expired  period.  A  canceled  obligation  is  one  that  was  not  paid  (check  drawn)  at  the  time  the appropriation was canceled. Expired Funds—Appropriations which are no longer available for new obligations, but have not been  canceled.      Appropriations  are  in  an  expired  status  for  five  years.    During  the  expired period,  an  appropriation  retains  its  original  identification  and  is  available  for  adjusting  and liquidating  obligations,  including  within-scope  contract  changes.    (See  AFI  65-601,  Volume  1, Chapter 6, Expired And Canceled Appropriations.) 6 AFPD65-6  19 JANUARY 2017 Retail  Supply—Consists  of  parts  of  the  Supply  Management  Activity  Group  of  AFWCF.  Specifically,  this  includes  the  resources  and  costs  of  the  General  Support  Division,  Fuels Division,  Medical-Dental  Division,  Troop  Support  Division,  and  Air  Force  Academy  Cadet Store. Wholesale  Supply—Consists  of  parts  of  the  Supply  Management  Activity  Group  of  AFWCF. Specifically,  this  includes  resources  and  costs  of  the  Material  Support  Divisions  which consolidated  the  Reparable  Support  Division,  the  System  Support  Division  and  the  Cost  of Operations Division. Obligation—Amounts  of  orders  placed,  contracts  awarded,  services  received,  and  similar transactions during a given period requiring future payment of money. resource Planning,  Programming,  Budgeting  and  Execution management system used to establish, maintain, and update the Future Years Defense Program and DOD portion of the President’s Budget.  It  is a process  containing  four interrelated phases:  planning, programming, budgeting, and execution. (PPBE)—The  DOD  