BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE AIR FORCE, INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  AF/A2D  Supersedes:  HAFMD1-33, 4 September 2009  SUMMARY OF CHANGES Certified by: AF/A2  (Lt Gen Robert P. Otto) Pages: 12  This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision includes significant changes due to reorganizations within the Air Force intelligence community (IC);  assigns  responsibility  for  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT)  Executor  and  the  oversight  of Civil Aviation Intelligence activities; removes or changes references that have been superseded, changed, or rescinded; and updates organizational responsibilities.  1.  Mission.  The  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  (DCS)  of  the  Air  Force  for  Intelligence,  Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2), pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038, and as documented by paragraph  4.3  of  Air  Force  Mission  Directive  (AFMD)  1,  Headquarters  Air  Force,  and  this Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive, assists the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), other  Secretariat  offices,  and  the  Chief  of  Staff  in  carrying  out  the  ISR  mission  of  the Department  of the Air Force (DAF).  The SecAF retains ultimate responsibility for  all policies related  to  the  DAF.    The  AF/A2  prepares  Air  Force  (AF)  ISR  policies  for  approval  and  issues guidance/procedures,  via  official  AF  publications,  to  ensure  implementation  of  those  policies.  The AF/A2 also assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) in his/her role, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 151, as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS). 2 HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 2.  Organizational  Relationships.  The  SecAF  is  responsible  for,  and  has  all  legal  authority necessary to  conduct, the affairs of the DAF.  The Secretariat, the CSAF, and Air Staff offices perform their DAF functions subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SecAF. 2.1.  AF/A2  reports  directly  to  the  CSAF,  but  provides  support  to  the  SecAF,  the  Under Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, and other Air Staff offices.  The SecAF may  re-delegate  authority/assign  responsibilities  to  the  AF/A2,  but  the  SecAF,  through  the CSAF and, as appropriate, Assistant Secretaries of the AF, retains ultimate responsibility for all matters listed in Attachment 1 of this publication. 2.2.  AF/A2  is  part  of  the  Air  Staff  and,  as  such,  works  closely  with  other  HAF  offices  to assist  the  SecAF  and  the  CSAF  in  carrying  out  their  responsibilities.    AF/A2  and  its directorates work in close cooperation with the Vice Chief of Staff, Assistant Secretaries of the  AF,  the  Deputy  Chiefs  of  Staff,  and  their  respective  offices,  which  are  responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 U.S.C. §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for  assisting  the  SecAF  and  the  CSAF  in  carrying  out  their  responsibilities.    AF/A2 coordinates  with  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  for  Operations,  Plans  and Requirements (AF/A3) to develop and manage manned and unmanned ISR aircraft activities. 2.3.  Reporting  to  AF/A2  is  a  Field  Operating  Agency,  the  National  Air  and  Space Intelligence Center, whose mission will be documented in a future AFMD. 3.  Responsibilities.  AF/A2 is specifically responsible for: 3.1.  Serving  as the AF  ISR focal  point across the Department  of  Defense (DoD) and other government agencies. 3.2.  Serving as the office of primary  responsibility  (OPR) for AF  ISR to  include planning, programming,  policy,  guidance,  intelligence  force  development,  and  oversight  for  all  AF components  of  the  intelligence  functional  community  (Active  Component,  Reserve Components, and Civilian). 3.3.  Leading  development  of  AF  ISR  strategy,  policy,  guidance,  standards,  concepts  of operations and continuity of operations for AF ISR capabilities. 3.4.  Supporting  development  and  overseeing  implementation  of  AF  ISR  doctrine  and requirements.   3.5.  Formulating  intelligence  policy  and  guidance,  specifically  with  regard  to  policy oversight;  planning,  programming,  and  resource  allocation;  and  program  evaluation  for  the National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the Military Intelligence Program (MIP) in support of AF requirements.   3.6.  Assisting the CSAF in providing operationally ready forces in response to the needs of the  Combatant  Commanders  through  measured  analysis,  assessment,  and  actionable decisions based on current and predicted readiness indicators. 3.7.  Formulating  the  Air  Staff  position  on  AF  ISR  matters  under  consideration  by  the  JCS and National Security Council while acting as the single point of contact for AF ISR equities within the HAF.   3.8.  Leading the development of guidance to implement intelligence policy in support of AF requirements processes. HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 3 3.9.  Leading the development of AF policy and guidance, in coordination with legal counsel, to ensure AF ISR activities comply with applicable United States (US) and international law. 3.10.  Leading  the  development  of  policy  to  ensure  proper  supervision  and  control  of  AF intelligence activities, including those that support force protection operations. 3.11.  Publishing  AF  Intelligence  Oversight  instructions,  ensuring  training  of  AF/A2 personnel in Intelligence Oversight standards, complying with those standards, and providing representation to the Air Force Intelligence Oversight Panel. 3.12.  Serving as the AF’s Head of the Intelligence Community Element (HICE), responsible for fulfilling service tasks and responsibilities flowing from Executive Order 12333,  United States  Intelligence  Activities.    Partners  with  the  other  organizations  that  comprise  the Intelligence Community (IC), including; the Combat Support Agencies (Defense Intelligence Agency,  National  Security  Agency/Central  Security  Service,  and  National  Geospatial-Intelligence Agency) in  order to conduct intelligence activities necessary for the conduct of foreign relations and the protection of the national security of the US.   3.13.  Serving  as  AF  representative  at  the  IC’s  Executive  Committee  (EXCOM)  and Deputies’ Executive Committee (DEXCOM). 3.14.  Serving  as  the  AF  senior  official  responsible  for  the  oversight,  management,  and administration  of  the  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI)  security  program,  to include  formulating  and  implementing  policies  governing  the  protection  of  sources  and methods, the special security office system, and applicable security awareness and education programs. 3.15.  Serving  as  the  AF  representative  to  the  National  Military  Command  Center/Joint Operations/Intelligence  Operations  Center  and  National  Operational  Intelligence  Watch Officers Network (NOIWON). 3.16.  Serving as one of 15 Defense Human Intelligence (HUMINT) Executors that comprise the Defense HUMINT Enterprise. 3.17.  Serving as the DoD focal point for analysis of civil aviation-related entities associated with illicit activities or posing a threat to the US, its allies, or its interests. 3.18.  Serving  as  the  AF  Geospatial  Intelligence  (GEOINT)  Element  to  manage  the  AF GEOINT Program, as well as AF GEOINT analysis and production. 3.19.  Serving as the senior AF official for all intelligence information systems matters. 3.19.1.  Ensuring all AF intelligence information systems comply with Office of National Intelligence  directives  and  requirements  Intelligence  Community  Directive  (ICD)  500, Director of National Intelligence, Chief Information Officer. 3.19.2.  Ensuring all AF intelligence and intelligence-related information is discoverable by  automated  means  by  “authorized  IC  personnel.”    Appoints  collection  and  analytic stewards IAW ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence Community. 3.19.3.  Ensuring  the  integrated  defense  of  the  SCI-level  information  environment  IAW (ICD 502, Integrated Defense of the Intelligence Community Information Environment). 4 HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 3.19.4.  Overseeing  the  assessment  and  authorization  activities  for  all  SCI-level information systems (ICD 503, Certification and Accreditation). 4.  Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility:  The authorities delegated and the responsibilities  assigned  to  AF/A2  by  this  Mission  Directive  are  listed  in  paragraph  3  and  in Attachment 1.  They may generally be re-delegated to other DAF officials unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD Issuance.  While  the  authorities/responsibilities  are  delegated  or  assigned  to  the  AF/A2,  exercise  of  the authorities/responsibilities  remains  subject  to  the  oversight  and  control  of  the  SecAF,  any Assistant  Secretary  having  relevant  oversight,  and  the  CSAF.   Any  re-delegation  of authority/assignment of responsibility shall not  be effective unless it is  in writing.  Any person re-delegating authorities  IAW this Directive may place further restrictions  or conditions  on the authority being re-delegated. 5.  Continuation  of  Prior  Re-Delegations  of  Authority/Assignments  of  Responsibility:  Re-delegations  of  authority/assignment  of  responsibility  made  prior  to  the  date  of  issuance  of  this HAF Mission Directive remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF Mission Directive, unless superseded by new delegations.  Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 5 ATTACHMENT 1 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENTS OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE AIR FORCE, INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE A1.1.  Authority  relating  to  the  recommendation  of  approval/disapproval  for  payment  of  death gratuity to survivors of certain DoD personnel assigned to ISR duties as delegated to the SecAF pursuant  to  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI)  1341.08,  Payment  of  Death  Gratuity  to Survivors of Certain DoD Personnel Assigned to Intelligence Duties. A1.2.  Authority  relating  to  the  Intelligence  Community  Officer  Programs  as  delegated  to  the SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  1400.36,  DoD  Implementation  of  the  Joint  Intelligence  Community Duty Assignment (JDA) Program. A1.3.  Authority relating to Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) as delegated to the SecAF and representation on the MDA Senior Advisory Group pursuant to Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 2005.02E, Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) in the Department of Defense. A1.4.  Authority relating to National Technical Nuclear Forensics (NTNF) Program as delegated to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD  S-2060.04,  DoD  Support  to  the  National  Technical  Nuclear Forensics (NTNF) Program (U), marked Secret. A1.5.  Authority  relating  to  emergency  evacuation  and  crisis-related  operations  for  Intelligence and  continuity  of  intelligence  programs  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  3020.39, Integrated Continuity Program for the Defense Intelligence Enterprise (DIE). A1.6.  Authority relating to the Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP) and membership in  the  DCIP  Working  Group  pursuant  to  DoDI  3020.51,  Intelligence  Support  to  the  Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP). A1.7.  Authority,  except  for  the  designation/appointment  of  commanders,  relating  to  signals intelligence,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  O-3115.07,  Signals  Intelligence (SIGINT) (U), marked For Official Use Only. A1.8.  Authority relating to the collection of information on non-U.S. persons outside the United States at the request of law enforcement agencies, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3115.08,  Collection  of  Information  on  Non-U.S.  Persons  Outside  the  United  States  at  the Request of U.S. Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs). A1.9.  Authority relating to the DoD intelligence interrogations, detainee debriefings and tactical questioning,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD  3115.09,  DoD  Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical Questioning. A1.10.  Authority relating to the Intelligence Support to Personnel Recovery, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3115.10E, Intelligence Support to Personnel Recovery. A1.11.  Authority  relating  to  the  development  and  execution  of  the  DoD  Intelligence  Human Capital  Programs  and  representation  on  the  Defense  Intelligence  Human  Resource  Board (DIHRB),  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  3115.11,  DoD  Intelligence  Human Capital Management Operations. 6 HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 A1.12.  Authority  relating  to  the  development,  coordination  and  execution  of  Open  Source Intelligence (OSINT) and the DoD Open Source Council, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3115.12, Open Source Intelligence (OSINT). A1.13.  Authority relating to the administrative and logistic support to the High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 3115.13, DoD Support to the High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group (HIG). A1.14.  Authority  relating to civil  aviation  intelligence and other  air domain  awareness  matters as delegated to the SecAF, pursuant to DoDI 3115.14, Civil Aviation Intelligence. A1.15.  Authority  relating  to  GEOINT-related  activities  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF,  pursuant  to DoDI 3115.15, Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT). A1.16.  Authority related to the Defense Warning Network and related activities as delegated to the SecAF, pursuant to DoDD 3115.16, The Defense Warning Network. A1.17.  Authority  relating  to  the  DoD  Special  Communications  Enterprise  as  delegated  to  the the  DoD  Special SecAF,  pursuant Communications Enterprise Office (SCEO) (U), marked as Secret. to  DoDI  3200.17,  Implementing  Instructions for A1.18.  Authority  relating  to  the  establishment  and  maintenance  of  document  and  media exploitation  capabilities  and  related  activities,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD 3300.03, DoD Document and Media Exploitation (DOMEX). A1.19.  Authority  related  to  Defense  Biometric  Enabled  Intelligence  and  Forensic  Enabled Intelligence, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI O-3300.04, Defense Biometric Enabled Intelligence (BEI) and Forensic Enabled Intelligence (FEI). A1.20.  Authority  relating  to  the  effective  use  of  and  support  for  Reserve  Military  Intelligence (RMI)  capabilities  and  related  duties,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  3300.05, Reserve Component Intelligence Enterprise (RCIE) Management. A1.21.  Authority relating to General  Intelligence Training, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.02, DoD General Intelligence Training. A1.22.  Authority relating to the Joint Reserve Intelligence Program, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.07, Joint Reserve Intelligence Program (JRIP). A1.23.  Authority  relating  to  the  management  and  administration  of  the  Joint  Reserve Intelligence Program, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3325.11, Management of the Joint Reserve Intelligence Program (JRIP). A1.24.  Authority relating to the design and development of cryptologic training, evaluation, and related  planning,  programming,  budgeting  and  execution  system  actions,  as  delegated  to  the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.09, DoD Cryptologic Training. A1.25.  Authority  relating  to  the  development  and  execution  of  GEOINT  training  and  related Planning,  Programming  and  Budgeting  (PP&B)  actions  and  representation  on  the  Community Geospatial-Intelligence Training Council (CGTC), as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.10, Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT) Training. HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 7 A1.26.  Authority relating to the review and approval of intelligence training, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.12, Intelligence and Counterintelligence (I&CI) Training of Non-US Persons. A1.27.  Authority relating to the participation in of Joint Intelligence Training and representation on the USJFCOM Joint Forces Intelligence Training Council (JFITC), as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.14, Joint Intelligence Training (JIT). A1.28.  Authority relating to the HUMINT training and related PP&B actions, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI 3305.15, DoD Human Resources Intelligence Collection Training. A1.29.  Authority relating to the development and implementation of DoD MASINT training and related PP&B actions and representation on the DoD MASINT Training and Education Council (MTEC),  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  3305.16,  DoD  Measurement  and Signature Intelligence (MASINT) Training. A1.30.  Authority relating to the transfer of national intelligence collection tasking authority, as delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD  S-3325.02,  Transfer  of  National  Intelligence Collection Tasking Authority (NCTA) (U), marked as Secret. A1.31.  Authority related to the Foreign Materiel Program, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI S-3325.04, Implementation of the Foreign Materiel Program.  A1.32.  Authority  relating  to  human  source  validation  activities,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF pursuant  to  DoDI  S-3325.07,  Guidance  for  the  Conduct  of  DoD  Human  Source  Validation), marked as Secret. relating to A1.33.  Authority responsibilities  and representation  on  the  Defense  Collection  Management  Board  (DCMB),    as  delegated  to  the SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  S-3325.08,  DoD  Intelligence  Collection  Management  (U),  marked Secret. Intelligence  Collection  Management A1.34.  Authority relating to Defense Clandestine Source Operations, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant  to  DoDD  S-3325.09,  Oversight,  Management,  and  Execution  of  Defense  Clandestine Source Operations, marked as Secret  A1.35.  Authority relating to  HUMINT  activities, as delegated to  the SecAF, pursuant  to  DoDI S-3325.10, Human Intelligence (HUMINT) Activities in Cyberspace, marked as Secret. A1.36.  Authority  relating  to  GEOINT  requirements,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to DoDI  5000.56,  Programming  Geospatial-Intelligence  (GEOINT),  Geospatial  Information  & Services (GI&S), and Geodesy Requirements for Developing Systems. A1.37.  Authority  relating to the handling, use,  release, availability, and  withholding of limited distribution  GEOINT,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  5030.59,  National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) LIMITED DISTRIBUTION Geospatial Intelligence. A1.38.  Authority  relating  to  Critical  Information  Communications  (CRITICOMM)  System-related activities, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD O-5100.19, Critical Information Communications (CRITICOMM) System, marked For Official Use Only. A1.39.  Authority relating to the National Security Agency and the Central Security Service, and duties as the Chief of the Service Cryptologic Component, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5100.20, The National Security Agency and the Central Security Service. 8 HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 A1.40.  Authority related to the Defense Special Missile and Aerospace Center, as delegated to the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  S-5100.43,  Defense  Special  Missile  and  Aerospace  Center (DEFSMAC), marked as Secret. A1.41.  Authority  relating  to  coordination  with  the  Director,  Defense  Counterintelligence  and Human  Intelligence  Center,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  O-5100.93,  Defense Counterintelligence  (CI)  and  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT)  Center  (DCHC),  marked  For Official Use Only. A1.42.  Authority  relating to  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT)  Training-Joint  Center  of Excellence  (HT-JCOE)  training  activities,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  O-5100.95,  Human  Intelligence  (HUMINT)  Training-Joint  Center  of  Excellence  (HT-JCOE), marked For Official Use Only. A1.43.  Authority  relating  to  the  Defense  Intelligence  Agency,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.21, Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).  A1.44.  Authority  relating  to  collaboration  and  coordination  with,  and  support  of,  the  National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.23, National Reconnaissance Office (NRO). A1.45.  Authority  relating  to  Measurement  and  Signature  Intelligence  (MASINT)-related activities,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  5105.58,  Management  of  Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASINT). A1.46.  Authority relating to GEOINT-related activities and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5105.60, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). A1.47.  Authority relating to intelligence activities as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5143.01 Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I))  A1.48.  Authority related to intelligence oversight, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5148.11,  Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Oversight (ATSD(IO)). A1.49.  Authority  relating  to  the  management  of  human  intelligence  activities,  as  delegated  to the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD  S-5200.37,  Management  and  Execution  of  Defense  Human Intelligence (HUMINT), marked as Secret. A1.50.  Authority relating to the conduct of Defense Human Intelligence and related intelligence operations, as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDI S-5200.42, Defense Human Intelligence (HUMINT) and Related Intelligence Activities(U), marked as Secret. A1.51.  Authority  relating  to  DoD  Foreign  Military  Intelligence  Collection  Activities,  as delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDI  C-5205.01,  DoD  Foreign  Military  Intelligence Collection Activities (FORMICA) (U), marked as Confidential. A1.52.  Authority  relating  to  the  designation  of  a  Military  Intelligence  Program  manager  for implementing  or  managing  the  implementation  of  MIP-related  policies  and  processes,  as delegated to the SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5205.12, Military Intelligence Program (MIP). A1.53.  Responsibility  for  ensuring  Air  Force  compliance  with  DoDI  5210.45,  Personnel Security Policies and Procedures for Sensitive Cryptologic Information in the National Security Agency/Central Security Service. HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 9 A1.54.  Authority  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD  S-5210.93,  Foreign  Personnel Coordination Program (FPCP), marked as Secret. A1.55.  Authority  relating  to  intelligence  assets  and  activities,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF pursuant to DoDD 5240.01, DoD Intelligence Activities. A1.56.  Authority  relating  to  intelligence  commercial  activities,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF pursuant to DoDI S-5240.12, Intelligence Commercial Activities (ICAs) (U), marked as Secret. A1.57.  Authority  related  to  the  management  of  intelligence  mission  data,  as  delegated  to  the SecAF  pursuant  to  DoDD  5250.01,  Management  of  Intelligence  Mission  Data  (IMD)  in  DoD Acquisition. A1.58.  Authority  related  to  strategic  intelligence  interrogations,  as  delegated  to  the  SecAF (DTM)  09-031,  Videotaping  or  Otherwise pursuant Electronically Recording Strategic Intelligence  Interrogations of Persons  in the Custody of the Department of Defense. to  Directive-type  Memorandum A1.59.  Authority  related  to  public  disclosure  of  intelligence  information,  as  delegated  to  the SecAF pursuant to DTM 13-009, Congressional Notification for Authorized Public Disclosure of Intelligence Information.  10 HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 ATTACHMENT 2 DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE AIR FORCE, INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE AND RECONNAISSANCE (AF/A2)  A2.1.  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  of the  Air  Force,  Intelligence,  Surveillance,  and Reconnaissance  (ISR)  (AF/A2)  is  responsible  for  the  overall  supervision  of  all  matters pertaining to AF ISR capabilities.  The AF/A2 is the HAF focal point responsible for the end-to-end  functional  management  of  all  AF  ISR  capabilities;  leading  the  development  and implementation of AF policies and guidance for developing, managing, and overseeing AF ISR activities;  leading  the  organization,  planning,  and  programming  of  AF  intelligence,  providing planning,  programming,  and  budgeting  oversight;  and  being  responsible  for  professional development,  training,  education,  readiness,  and  deployment  of  the  intelligence  force.  Implements  national-level  security  directives  and  personnel  administrative  actions  directed  by the SecAF and serves as the lead element to the IC.  AF/A2 serves as the AF Defense HUMINT Executor. A2.2.  AF/A2 Directorate offices include: A2.2.1.  Directorate  of  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  Capabilities (AF/A2C).  Provides  oversight,  policy,  guidance,  management,  and  synchronization  for  all AF  manned,  unmanned,  cyber,  and  space  ISR  capabilities  and  AF  ISR  information architecture.  Ensures integration and interoperability with other service, agency, allied, and commercial  ISR  assets.    Represents  AF/A2  as  the  AF  service  lead  for  all  functional intelligence  areas including  GEOINT,  SIGINT,  MASINT,  OSINT  and  HUMINT capabilities.  Provides functional expertise on all AF ISR capabilities, to include processing, exploitation,  and  dissemination  systems;  targeting;  Foreign  Materiel  Program  matters;  and oversees  the  operational  planning,  allocation,  integration,  interoperability,  and  employment of  AF  ISR  capabilities.    Ensures  cohesive  future  planning  for  the  AF  ISR  information architecture incorporating joint, IC, and coalition capabilities with appropriate programmatic actions in coordination with A2R.  Guides technical standards within the AF/A2 governance structure  and  advocates  for  standards  across  the  IC  for  AF  ISR  information  architecture systems  and  communications  capabilities,  data  links,  and  command  and  control  nodes. Interfaces  with  Congressional,  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (DNI),  the  Office  of  the HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 11 Secretary of Defense, Joint, Service, agency, and MAJCOM staffs to meet joint and coalition warfighter needs.  Serves as the AF IC Element Chief Information Environment Officer and implements  DNI  and  other  required  directives  and  policies  regarding  the  development, operation,  integration  or  protection  of  Sensitive  Compartmented  Information  (SCI)  and intelligence  Special  Access  Programs.    Works  with  CIO  A6  to  incorporate  SCI  and intelligence systems into the overall Air Force information architecture. A2.2.2.  Directorate  of  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  Strategy,  Plans, Policy  and  Force  Development  (AF/A2D).  Designs,  integrates,  and  assists  the  AF/A2  on the synchronization of ISR efforts through ISR strategy, plans, policy integration, total force management, and readiness.  Collaborates closely with AF/A5/8 (Strategy) to ensure AF ISR strategy is captured in AF-level guidance, Strategy and Vision documents, and the AF Future Operating  Concept.    Collaborates  with  Global  Integrated  ISR  (GIISR)  Core  Function  Lead and the associated Core Function Team to ensure biennial GIISR Core Function Support Plan reflects AF/A2 strategy and guidance.  Writes and shapes strategy, plans, and policy for ISR activities;  strategic  “think  tank”  for  ISR  multidisciplinary  actions  and  strategic  planning, within the AF and with sister services, Joint Staff, and the IC. Collaborates with IC, industry, and service research labs to  characterize and assess  future science and technology  concepts when  informing  AF/A2  strategic  guidance.    Represents  AF/A2  in  requirements  and acquisition  reviews,  as  well  as  strategic  planning,  development  planning,  and  capabilities development processes.  Provides policy, guidance and oversight for capability planning and analysis  to  support  AF  strategic  planning  and  programming,  MAJCOM-led  AF  ISR capability development, and core function planning.  Provides policy, guidance and oversight for  acquisition  intelligence  to  include,  but  not  limited  to,  threat  and  intelligence supportability (such as Intelligence Mission Data, Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership &  Education, Personnel,  and Facilities, etc.) inputs to  requirements, capabilities planning,  and  lifecycle  acquisition  processes.    Manages  AF  ISR  agreements  with  foreign nations; facilitates senior leader discussion to further ISR relationships with global partners.  HAF focal  point and USAF  lead for intelligence  analysis and production, providing policy, guidance, strategic planning, advocacy,  and oversight  across the  ISR Enterprise.   Leads the development of AF ISR Professionals across the Total Force to include utilization, training, education  and  certification  for  Active  Duty,  Air  Reserve  Component,  and  civilians; orchestrates  all  Intelligence  Global  Force  Management  and  Air  Expeditionary  Force requirements;  primarily  responsible  for  all  intelligence  force  packaging,  mobilization, deployment  plans/policy.    Leads  the  development  and  maintenance  of  the  AF  Intelligence Human Capital  Management Plan and the development of  force management guidance and policy.    AF  ISR  Senior  Language  Authority  (SLA)  and  AF  Deputy  SLA.    Serves  as  the AF/A2  functional  manager  for  ISR’s  foreign  language,  regional  expertise  and  culture (LREC)  warfighting  capabilities  and  is  responsible  for  ISR  LREC  policies,  strategies, oversight, programming, and partnership engagements. A2.2.3.  Directorate  of  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  Innovations (AF/A2I).  Innovates,  explores,  develops,  and  evaluates  near-term  ISR  technologies, concepts,  and  practices  for  potential  applicability  to  the  AF  ISR  Enterprise.    Promotes innovation,  intelligence  concept  exploration,  capability  maturation,  rapid  prototyping,  and rapid  technology  insertion  by  harnessing  warfighter  inputs,  seeking  stakeholder  consensus, and  advocating  funding  with  A2R.    Assists  in  the  guidance  and  adoption  of  technical 12 HAFMD1-33  18 SEPTEMBER 2015 standards within the AF/A2 governance structure and advocates for interoperability standards across the broader ISR community, including data, waveform and information tool standards.  Sets  policy  and  advises  the  AF/A2  on  Integrated  Broadcast  Service  (IBS)  as  the  AF Executive Agent for IBS issues and initiatives.  Coordinates IBS oversight across OSD, Joint Staff, all services and IC components. A2.2.4.  Directorate  of  Intelligence,  Surveillance  and  Reconnaissance  Resources (AF/A2R).  Represents  AF  ISR  manpower  billet,  manpower  funding,  and  other  funding issues  in  National  IC,  AF  and  DoD  forums.    Leads  the  development  and  oversees  the execution of AF ISR program and budget in the MIP and NIP, except for space acquisition programs managed by the Under Secretary of the Air Force.  Leads the development of AF ISR  positions  on  Congressional  issues,  inquiries  and  actions.    Represents  AF/A2  resources with  CIO  A6,  OSD,  IC,  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence,  Combatant Commands, MAJCOMs, and services. A2.2.5.  Directorate  of  ISR  Special  Programs  (AF/A2Z).  AF/A2  lead  for  AF  Special Access  Program  (SAP)  capabilities,  specialized  imagery  support,  SCI  security,  sensitive activities, and sensitive source reporting.  AF intelligence focal point for the US Government (USG)  Intelligence  Oversight  program.    Directs  and  coordinates  A2-assigned  SecAF Executive  Agency  SAP  programs.    Ensures  the  SAP  programs  are  resourced  and operationally  available  to  DOD,  IC,  and  USG  agencies.    Serves  as  the  DNI-mandated  AF Cognizant  Security  Authority.    As  the  senior  security  authority  designated  by  the  AF/A2, oversees  AF  SCI  security  program  management  and  security  policy  development.    Plans, organizes, and oversees the development, interpretation, and implementation of policies and procedures to provide the effective implementation of AF/A2 Crisis Action Team/Continuity of Operation plans, equipment, support, and resources.  Functions as the Sensitive Activities Management  Office  for  the  AF/A2.    AF  functional  manager  for  sensitive  source  reporting program, to include facilities and personnel access.  