BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE   HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-36    17 FEBRUARY 2015  DIRECTOR, AIR FORCE HISTORY AND MUSEUMS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY  ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications  and  forms  are  available  on  the  e-Publishing  website  at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.  RELEASABILITY:   There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.   OPR:  AF/HO Certified by:  AF/HO  (Mr. Walter Grudzinskas) Pages:  6  Supersedes:  HAF MD 1-36, 18 May 2011  SUMMARY OF CHANGES This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes include:  Paragraph 2.1: AF/HO is realigned from Vice Chief of Staff to the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff.  Attachment 2, Paragraph A2.2.1: The Air Force Historical Studies Office (AF/HOH) is redesignated  as  the  Air  Force  Historical  Support  Office  and  its  responsibilities  have  been modified.  Due to the Headquarters Air Force reorganization, the Air force History and Museums Policies and Programs (AF/HO) will curtail its oral history program, will have delayed response to inquiries and taskers, no longer support symposiums, have diminished capabilities to produce book  length  manuscripts,  and  will  have  to  rely  on  other  staff  elements  for  information technology and budget liaison support. 1.  Mission.  The Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs, pursuant to 10 USC §§ 8031-8038, and as documented by paragraph(s) 4.3 of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive, assists the Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, and the Chief of Staff in carrying out the history and museums program of the Department of the Air Force.  The Secretary of the Air Force retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force.  Within his/her areas of responsibility, the AF/HO prepares policies for approval and issues official guidance/procedures 2  HAFMD 1-36   17 February 2015 to ensure implementation of those policies.  The AF/HO also assists the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in his role, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 151, as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS). 2.  Organizational Relationships.   The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for, and has all legal  authority  necessary  to  conduct,  the  affairs  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.    The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the Secretary of the Air Force. 2.1.    The  AF/HO  reports  directly  to  the  Assistant  Vice  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force,     providing support to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Under Secretary of the Air Force, other Secretariat offices, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and other Air Staff offices.  The Secretary of the Air Force may re-delegate authority/assign responsibility to the AF/HO, but the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  through  the  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  and,  as appropriate,  Assistant  Secretaries  of  the  Air  Force,  retains  ultimate  responsibility  for  all matters affecting AF/HO. 2.2.  The AF/HO is part of the Air Staff and as such works closely with other HAF offices to assist  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  Chief  of  Staff  in  carrying  out  his  or  her responsibilities.    The  AF/HO  and  the  Office  of  the  AF/HO  work  in  cooperation  with  the other  HAF  officials,  and  their  respective  offices,  which  are  responsible,  pursuant  to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  and  the  Chief  of  Staff  in  carrying  out  his  or  her responsibilities. 2.2.1.    Pursuant  to  Headquarters  Operating  Instruction  HOI  90-1  (Headquarters  Air Force  Mission  Directive  –  Delegations  of  Authority  and  Assignment  of  Responsibilities),  two  or  more  HAF  two-letter/digit  organizations,  Field  Operating Agencies, or Direct Reporting Units with responsibilities in the same functional area are encouraged to develop “standard operating procedures (SOPs)” that set forth procedures enabling covered organizations to fulfill and carry out their respective missions, roles, and responsibilities.  There are no SOPs between AF/HO and any other organization.   2.3.    Reporting  to  the  AF/HO  is  a  Field  Operating  Agency,  the  Air  Force  Historical Research Agency (AFHRA), whose mission is documented in AFMD-30. 3.  Responsibilities.  The AF/HO is specifically responsible for: 3.1.  Establishing policy and guidance for and directing the operations necessary to create and preserve a thorough record of Air Force institutions and activities.  3.2.  Establishing policy for and directing the establishment and operations of command and other field history programs. HAFMD 1-36  17 February 2015   3 3.3.  Establishing policy for and directing a program for publishing studies, monographs, and other works documenting the history of the Air Force and examining the history of air power in general for distribution within the Air Force, to other Government agencies, and to the public. 3.4.  Overseeing compilation of the annual history of Headquarters Air Force, preparation of historical  monographs  and  staff  studies  for  the  HAF,  and  other  historical  services  as required. 3.5.  Ensuring the establishment and efficient operation of an archival operation to preserve Air Force historical documents and provide research assistance to those researching those documents. 3.6.  Establishing policy and guidance for and directing the operations of the AFHRA. 3.7.  Establishing guidance for and broad oversight of the oral history, end of tour reports, and personal papers programs. 3.8.  Preparing guidance for document disposition to ensure important historical materials are preserved. 3.9.    Preparing  guidance  for  microfilming,  electronically  digitizing,  and  retrieving documents held by the Air Force History and Museums Programs. 3.10.      Providing  guidance  and  policy  to  the  National  Museum  of  the  United  States  Air Force  and  the  other  museums  and  components  of  the  Air  Force  Museum  System  and Heritage Program. 3.11.  Serving as Chairman of the History and Museums Civilian Career Program. 3.12.  Serving as the Air Force History and Museums Program Career Field Manager and Development Team Lead. 3.13.    Planning,  programming,  budgeting,  and  allocating  resources  for  the  Air  Force Historical Support Office (AF/HOH), the AFHRA, and program-wide activities. 3.14.    Maintaining  relationships  with  the  history  programs  of  the  other  military  services, other  United  States  government  agencies,  and  appropriate foreign  government organizations. 3.15.    Representing  the  Air  Force  at  meetings  of  historical  and  other  learned  societies  to encourage interest by educational and professional institutions in military aerospace history subject to funding. 4  HAFMD 1-36   17 February 2015 3.16.    Preparing  guidance,  in  cooperation  with  the  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services; for managing officer, enlisted and civilian historians, archivists  and  curators  working  within  the  Air  Force  History  and  Museums  Program.  Officer  and  Enlisted  Historian  positions  are  postured  in  the  AF  Reserve  because  of  Air Force History Museums Programs civilianization. 4.    Delegations  of  Authority/Assignment  of  Responsibility:    Attachment  1  lists  delegated authorities and assigned responsibilities to the AF/HO.  The authorities delegated/responsibilities assigned to the AF/HO by this HAF Mission Directive may generally be re-delegated to other Department of the Air Force officials unless re-delegation is expressly prohibited by the attached delegation or superseding law, regulation, or DoD issuance.  While the authorities are delegated to the AF/HO, the exercise of the authorities remains subject to the oversight and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, any Assistant Secretary of the Air Force having oversight, and the Chief of Staff.  Any re-delegation of authority made shall not be effective unless it is in writing.  Any  person  re-delegating  authorities  in  accordance  with  this  Directive  may  further  restrict  or condition the authority being re-delegated. 5.   Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibility:  Re-delegations of authority/assignments of responsibility made prior to the date of issuance of this HAF Mission Directive remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF Mission Directive, unless superseded by new issuances.    Deborah Lee James  Secretary of the Air Force Attachments: 1.  Delegations of Authorities/Assignment of Responsibility for AF/HO 2.  Organizational Chart/Three-Letter/Digit Responsibilities  HAFMD 1-36  17 February 2015   5  ATTACHMENT 1  DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE DIRECTOR, AIR FORCE HISTORY AND MUSEUMS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS  There are no delegations documented at this time.   HAFMD 1-36   17 February 2015 ATTACHMENT 2 DIRECTOR, AIR FORCE HISTORY AND MUSEUMS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS (AF/HO) Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs AF/HO    Air Force Historical Studies Office AF/HOH  6      A2.1. The Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs is responsible for the overall  supervision  of  all  matters  pertaining  to  Air  Force  policies  and  standards  for  historical products and services; management oversight to its subordinate division, the Air Force Historical Support  Office  (AF/HOH)  and  its  field  operating  agency,  the  Air  Force  Historical  Research Agency  (AFHRA);  and  furnishing  guidance  and  policy  for  the  USAF  Museum  and  Heritage Program.  A2.2.  Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include:  A2.2.1.  The Air Force Historical Support Office (AF/HOH).  AF/HOH is responsible for matters pertaining to the preparation of studies and other publications; and supporting Headquarters Air Force, government agencies, and individuals with historical analysis and research.   