BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-12 25 NOVEMBER 2015 ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER)  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  SAF/FME  Supersedes: HAFMD 1-12, 18 February 2010  SUMMARY OF CHANGES  Certified by: SAF/FM  (Lisa S. Disbrow) Pages: 18  This publication supersedes Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive (MD) 1-12 dated 18  February  2010.    This  publication  updates  the  MD  to  reflect  changes  in  organization  and function  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Financial  Management  and  Comptroller).  This  revision  reflects  significant  changes  resulting  from  the  Headquarters  Air  Force reorganization.  These changes include:  (1) Consolidation of Resource Advisor (RA) functions to SAF/FME; (2) transfer of the HAF programming organization and function from AF/A8P to SAF/FMP;  (3) redesignation of SAF/FMP Deputy  Assistant Secretary  for Financial Operations to  SAF/FMF;  (4)  divestment  and  transfer  of  the  Air  Force  Cost  Analysis  Agency’s  Financial Management Center of Expertise (CoE) from SAF/FMC to  AFMC’s Air Force Installation and Mission  Support  Center  (AFIMSC);  (5)  divestment  and  transfer  of  the  Air  Force  Financial Services Center (AFFSC) from SAF/FMF to AFIMSC; (6) implementation of the DoD Financial Management  Certification  Program  managed  by  SAF/FME;  and  (7)  consolidation  of  financial policy  functions.    This  HAF  MD  1-12  revision  assigns  pertinent  responsibilities  and  delegates authorities made to the Secretary of the Air Force in newly promulgated Department of Defense issuances,  and  updates  existing  delegations  and  assignments  to  reflect  changes  since  this document’s last publication date; updates organizational responsibilities; and incorporates minor administrative changes for grammar and readability.  1.  Mission.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SecAF),  pursuant  to  10  United  States  Code Sections (USC §§) 8013-8016, may establish offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist 2 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 the  Secretary  in  carrying  out  his/her  responsibilities.    As  documented  in  Air  Force  Mission Directive  (AFMD)  1,  Headquarters  Air  Force,  paragraph  4.2  and  this  Headquarters  Air  Force (HAF) Mission Directive (MD), the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller)  (SAF/FM) is  established as part of the Secretariat.  The SAF/FM has overall responsibility  for  the  Air  Force’s  comptroller,  programming,  and  financial  management functions as well as providing analytical services necessary for the effective and efficient use and management  of  resources  for  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.    The  SecAF  retains  ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force.  Within his/her areas of responsibility,  the  SAF/FM  prepares  policies  for  approval  and  issues  official  guidance  via official Air Force publications to ensure implementation of those policies. 2.  Organizational  Relationships.  The  SecAF  is  responsible  for,  and  has  all  legal  authority necessary to conduct the affairs of the Department of the Air Force (DAF).  The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the SecAF. 2.1.  The  SAF/FM  reports  to  the  SecAF,  serves  as  an  agent  of  the  SecAF  within  assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets within  his/her  area  of  responsibility.    The  SAF/FM  is  accountable  to  the  SecAF  for  results achieved within the policy and program domains assigned by this Directive. 2.2.  The SAF/FM and the Office of the SAF/FM work in cooperation with the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel,  and Services  (AF/A1); Deputy Chief of  Staff for  Logistics, Engineering,  and  Force  Protection  (AF/A4);  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Strategic  Plans  and Requirements  (AF/A5/8);  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Studies,  Analyses  and  Assessments (AF/A9); the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ); and the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR); and their respective offices,  which  are  responsible,  pursuant  to  Chapters  803  and  805  of  Title  10  (10  USC  §§ 8013-8023  and  §§  8031-8038),  for  assisting in  carrying  out  his/her responsibilities. the  SecAF 2.3.  Reporting to SAF/FM is a Field Operating Agency, the Air Force Cost Analysis Agency (AFCAA). 3.  Responsibilities.  The SAF/FM is specifically responsible for: 3.1.  Directing  and  managing  all  comptroller,  programming,  and  financial  management functions, activities, and operations of the Air Force. 3.2.  Serving  as  the  Air  Force  point  of  contact  with  Congressional  Appropriations Committees,  Budget  Committees  and  the  Congressional  Budget  Office,  the  Office  of Management  and  Budget  (OMB),  the  Government  Accountability  Office  (GAO),  and  the Department of the Treasury on financial and related matters. 3.3.  Advising  and  assisting  the  SecAF,  CSAF,  the  Chief  Management  Officer  (CMO),  and all principal civilian and military officials of the Air Force concerning financial management affairs. 3.4.  Establishing  policy  for  Air  Force  resource  allocation  and  Planning,  Programming, Budgeting  and  Execution  (PPBE)  process.    SAF/FMP  functions  as  the  Office  of  Primary HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 3 Responsibility  for  all matters pertaining to developing, directing, and conducting  Air  Force programming activities. 3.5.  Maintaining  the  integrity  of  the  Air  Force  Corporate  Structure  process.    The  SAF/FM provides  information  and  briefings  to  the  corporate  structure  for  corporate  decisions,  and serves as a member of the Air Force Council and Defense Medical Review Committee. 3.6.  Reviewing,  developing,  and  evaluating  proposed  options  to  change  the  Air  Force Program prior to, during, and following periods of major exercises to determine impacts on balance,  integration,  and  mission  areas.    The  SAF/FM  develops  Program  Guidance  and manages and processes program change requests. 3.7.  Developing, compiling and submitting the Air Force Program Objective Memorandum (POM);  coordinating  and  defending  the  POM,  Budget  Estimate  Submission  (BES),  the President’s Budget (PB), and all related documentation. 3.8.  Reviewing  and  evaluating  impacts  caused  by  changes  to  the  Air  Force  Program  and evaluating  historical  trends  compared  with  the  current  Future  Years  Defense  Program (FYDP) by appropriation, mission panels, etc. 3.9.  Receiving  and  tracking  fiscal  guidance  from  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense (OSD) and providing a comparison of fiscal resources (funding and real growth) between the Air Force and other Services. 3.10.  Providing  direction,  guidance,  and  supervision  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the programming, formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, and programs relative to:  3.10.1.  Preparing program and budget estimates. 3.10.2.  Allocating expenditures and collecting all funds administered by the DAF. 3.10.3.  Managing  and  overseeing  the  programming  and  financial  aspects  of  the  PPBE process. 3.10.4.  Managing  and  overseeing  all  financial  aspects  of  Air  Force  accounting  and finance operations, policy and guidance, systems, and reporting. 3.10.5.  Managing and overseeing all economic and business case analyses. 3.10.6.  Managing and overseeing integrated performance measurement, cost control, and reduction.  3.10.7.  Managing and overseeing cost estimating and cost analysis. 3.10.8.  Managing and overseeing cost reporting. 3.10.9.  Managing and overseeing financial statistical programs and analysis. 3.10.10.  Managing  and  overseeing  military  banking,  credit  union  programs,  foreign currency  buy  and  sell  transactions,  contract  financing,  and  contracts  for  financial management services. 3.10.11.  Managing and overseeing FM commercial activities. 3.10.12.  Managing and overseeing FM functional career field management. 4 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 3.10.13.  Approving & supervising any project to design or enhance a FM system for the DAF. 3.10.14.  Approving, establishing, and supervising the operation of financial management systems  of  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force,  including  systems  for  cash  management, credit  management,  and  debt  collection;  and  systems  accounting  for  the  quantity, location, and cost of property and inventory. lists  delegated  authorities  and  assigned 4.  Delegations  of  Authority:  Attachment  1 responsibilities  to  the  SAF/FM.    The  authorities  delegated/responsibilities  assigned  to  the SAF/FM  by  this  HAF  MD  may  generally  be  re-delegated  unless  re-delegation  is  expressly prohibited  by  the  attached  delegation  or  superseding  law,  regulation,  or  DoD  issuance.    While the  SAF/FM  may  re-delegate  authorities  to  other  Department  of  Air  Force  officials,  he  or  she will  ultimately  be  responsible  to  the  SecAF  for  all  matters  listed  in  Paragraph  1  of  this publication.  Any re-delegation of authority/reassignment of responsibility shall not be effective unless it is in writing.  Any person re-delegating authority in accordance with this HAF MD may further restrict or condition the authority/responsibility being re-delegated/re-assigned. 5.  Notifications  to  Congress:  No  re-delegation  of  authority/re-assignment  of  responsibility under this HAF MD below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit office, shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress.  6.  Continuation  of  Prior  Re-Delegations  of  Authority/Assignments  of  Responsibility:  Re-delegations of authority/assignments of responsibility made prior to the date of issuance of this HAF MD, remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF MD unless superseded by a new re-delegation or assignment of responsibility.   Deborah Lee James Secretary of the Air Force HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 5 ATTACHMENT 1 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER) A1.1.  Authority  relating  to  financial  institutions  on  Department  of  Defense  installations,  as delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  under  Department  of  Defense  Instruction  (DoDI) 1000.11, Financial Institutions on DoD installations. A1.2.  Authority  relating  to  the  operation  of  the  DoD  Financial  Management  Certification Program, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 1300.26, Operation of the DoD Financial Management Certification Program. A1.3.  Authority  relating  to  requiring  identified  forms  to  be  properly  maintained,  designating individuals  authorized  to  approve  identified  requests,  and  otherwise  ensuring  compliance  with identified  DoD  policies,  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  under  DoDI  1340.18, Advance Pay Incident to a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) for Members of the Uniformed Services. A1.4.  Authority relating to recoupment of nonrecurring costs on sales of U.S. items and related activities, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force under DoD Directive (DoDD) 2140.02, Recoupment of Nonrecurring Costs (NCs) on Sales of U.S. Items. A1.5.  Authority relating to determining whether employees may be reimbursed for local travel when  conducting  official  business  from  a  permanent  or  temporary  duty  station  in  the  National Capital  Region  and  whether  travel  orders  must  be  issued  for  the  same,  as  delegated  to  the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 4515.14, Washington Local Commuting Area. A1.6.  Authority relating to implementing prescribed procedures and developing appropriate Air Force  guidance  for  the  conduct  of  cost  estimation  and  analysis,  and  requesting  Director,  Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (DCAPE) approval of waivers or exceptions to DoD policy on the same, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force under DoDI 5000.73,  Cost Analysis Procedures and Guidance.   A1.7.  Authority  relating  to  the  Defense  Resources  Management  Institute,  as  delegated  to  the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  under  DoDI  5010.35,  Defense  Resources  Management  Institute (DRMI).   A1.8.  Authority relating to the Managers’ Internal Control Program (MICP), as delegated to the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDI  5010.40,  Managers’  Internal  Control  Program Procedures. A1.9.  Authority  relating  to  coordinating  with  and  supporting  the  Director,  Defense  Contract Audit  Agency  (DCAA),  and utilizing DCAA audit services, as  appropriate, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5105.36, Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). relating A1.10.  Authority the  Under  Secretary  of  Defense Comptroller/Chief  Financial  Officer  on  identified  matters,  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDD  5118.03,  Under  Secretary  of  Defense  (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer, Department of Defense (USD(C)/CFO). to  coordinating  with 6 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 A1.11.  Authority relating to coordinating with, obtaining finance and accounting services from, providing support to, and complying with identified guidance issued by the Defense Finance and Accounting Service, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5118.05, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS).    A1.12.  Authority relating to per diem, travel and transportation allowances, as delegated to the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDD  5154.29,  DoD  Pay  and  Allowances  Policy  and Procedures. A1.13.  Authority  relating  to  coordinating  and  facilitating  Surveys  and  Investigations  Staff inquiries, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5500.16, Relationship With the Surveys and Investigations (S&I) Staff, House Appropriations Committee. A1.14.  Authority  relating to  ensuring  compliance with  the policies and procedures in  the DoD Financial  Management  Regulation,  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to DoDI 7000.14, Department of Defense Financial Management Policy and Procedures. A1.15.  Authority  relating  to  estimating  the  full  costs  of  the  defense  workforce  in  support  of planning,  defense  acquisition,  and  force  structure  decisions,  performing  cost  benefit,  economic and business case analyses, and deciding whether to use DoD civilians to perform functions that are  currently  being  performed  by  contractors,  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force pursuant to DoDI 7041.04, Estimating and Comparing the Full Costs of Civilian and Active Duty Military Manpower and Contract Support. A1.16.  Authority relating to ensuring policy and procedures regarding use of economic analysis are implemented and presenting issues for resolution to the Defense Economic Analysis Council, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7041.3, Economic Analysis for Decision Making. A1.17.  Authority  relating  to  developing  and  executing  the  programs  and  budgets  necessary  to achieve national objectives, and providing day-to-day management of resources, as delegated to the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDD  7045.14,  The  Planning,  Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) Process. A1.18.  Authority  relating  to  establishing  procedures  to  ensure  appropriate  handling  of  and responses to Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense requests for access to records  or  other  information,  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDI 7050.03,  Office  of  the  Inspector  General  of  the  Department  of  Defense  Access  to  Records  and Information. A1.19.  Authority relating to audits of states, local governments and non-profit organizations and related activities, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7600.10, Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations. A1.20.  Authority  relating  to  Government  Accountability  Office  requests  for  records,  as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7650.1, General Accounting Office (GAO) and Comptroller General Requests for Access to Records. A1.21.  Authority  relating  to  Government  Accountability  Office  audit  surveys,  reviews  and reports,  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDI  7650.2,  Government Accountability Office (GAO) Reviews and Reports. HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 7 A1.22.  Authority  relating  to  follow-up  on  Government  Accountability  Office,  Department  of Defense  Inspector  General,  and  other  Department  of  Defense  internal  audit  organizations  audit findings and recommendations, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7650.3, Follow-up on General Accounting Office (GAO), DoD Inspector General (DoD IG), and Internal Audit Reports. A1.23.  Authority  relating  to  ensuring  compliance  with  DoD  policies  and  procedures  on  the reporting of retired military pay for identified purposes, as delegated to the Secretary  of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7770.01, Reporting Requirements for Retired Military Pay File Extracts (RMPFE). A1.24.  Authority  relating  to  ensuring  compliance  with  DoD  policies  and  procedures  on reporting  pay,  allowances,  deductions,  and  collections  of  active  component  military  personnel for identified purposes, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 7770.02, Reporting Requirements for Active Components Military Pay File Extracts (ACMPFE). A1.25.  Authority  relating  to  ensuring  compliance  with  DoD  policies  and  procedures  on  the reporting  of    the  pays,  allowances,  deductions,  and  collections  of  Reserve  Component  military service members for identified purposes, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to  DoDI  7770.03,  Reporting  Requirements  for  Reserve  Components  Military  Pay  File  Extracts (RCMPFE).  8 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 ATTACHMENT 2 ORGANIZATION CHART/THREE-LETTER/DIGIT RESPONSIBILITIES   ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE(FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER) (SAF/FM)   A2.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller) (SAF/FM).  The SAF/FM provides financial management  and analytical services necessary for the  effective  and  efficient  use  and  management  of  Air  Force  resources.    It  provides  guidance, functional  authority,  direction,  and  oversight  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  programming, formulation,  review,  and  execution  of  plans,  policies,  programs,  and  budgets  within  its  area  of responsibility for the Department of the Air Force. A2.2.  The Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary.  The SAF/FM (PDAS) exercises oversight of the  budgeting,  cost  estimating,  programs,  and  financial  operations  in  support  of  Air  Force priorities and at the direction of the Congress, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of the Air Force.  Additionally, the PDAS has responsibility for the development and training of the Air HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 9 Force  financial  management  community  to  include  military  and  civilian  members.    The  PDAS also operates as the Development Team (DT) Co-Chair. A2.3.  The  Executive  for  Enlisted  Matters.  The  SAF/FM  Executive  for  Enlisted  Matters (CFM) serves as the principal advisor to the Assistant Secretary on the utilization, training, and assignment  of  Air  Force  enlisted  financial  managers  and  is  the  focal  point  for  all  enlisted functional,  training,  contingency,  manpower,  and  personnel  issues  with  other  Headquarters  Air Force  offices.    The  Enlisted  CFM  serves  as  the  ambassador  between  the  Secretariat  and  the financial  management  enlisted  force,  disseminating  career  field  information  and  addressing concerns. A2.4.  Subordinate offices include: A2.4.1.  The  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  for  Budget  (SAF/FMB).    SAF/FMB  is responsible for  matters pertaining to financial oversight and budgetary control of Air Force appropriations and assigned funds.  Manages all matters pertaining to the Air Force budget, including  the  formulation,  review,  presentment,  justification  and  spending  of  appropriated funds.  Serves as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for selected financial functions for  the  Security  Assistance  Program.    Serves  as  the  Developmental  Team  (DT)  Co-Chair.  Specific responsibilities include: A2.4.1.1.  Serving  as  the  primary  advisor  to  the  SAF/FM  on  funding,  pricing,  and executability  issues  related  to  the  budgeting  for  all  Air  Force  appropriations  (including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve). A2.4.1.2.  Serving as the primary advisor to the SAF/FM on budget issues, objectives and strategies, and provides budget assessments and alternative funding profiles as they relate to execution.  Advising the SAF/FM and SAF/FMP on program issues. A2.4.1.3.  Maintaining  close  working  relationships  with  the  programmers  to  ensure  a smooth transition between the programming and budgeting phases of the PPBE process. A2.4.1.4.  Chairing  the  Air  Force  Intermediate  Level  Review  Group  (Air  Force  Group) and  the  Air  Force  Board  for  all  budget  formulation  and  execution;  Co-Chairing  the  Air Force Board for programming matters. A2.4.1.5.  Assessing  the  impact  RMDs  have  on  Air  Force  programs  and  budgets,  and coordinating recommendation of reclama/rebuttal actions to SAF/FMP. A2.4.1.6.  Advising the Air Force Corporate Structure on programmatic disconnects and offsets,  baseline  repricing,  flying  hour  funding  issues,  results  of  the  Investment  Budget Review Committee, the Operating Budget Review Committee, and the Personnel Budget Review  Committee.    Overseeing  fiscal  and  funding  execution  controls  across  all  Air Force appropriations. A2.4.1.7.  Advising  the  Air  Force  Board  (AFB)/CSAF/SecAF  on  Major  Budget  Issues and coordinating Air Force response. A2.4.1.8.  Providing  guidance  and  direction  to  the  Secretariat,  Air  Staff,  and  Major Commands (MAJCOMS) for the development of funding requirements. 10 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 A2.4.1.9.  Preparing  the  Air  Force  budget  and  developing,  coordinating,  and  submitting justification  material  to  the  OSD,  OMB,  and  the  U.S.  Congress  to  substantiate  the  Air Force portion of the President’s Budget. A2.4.1.10.  Submitting finalized Air Force positions to OSD automated systems. A2.4.1.11.  Serving  as  the  Air  Force  Congressional  liaison  with  the  Budget  and Appropriations  Committees  and  Congressional  Budget  Office,  as  well  as  assisting  the SAF/FM and/or other Air Force Senior Leadership with preparation of testimony before Congressional committees. A2.4.1.12.  Determining appropriation applicability and propriety of funds usage. A2.4.1.13.  Providing fiscal direction of non-appropriated funds through participation on the  Army  and  Air  Force  Exchange  Service  (AAFES)  Board  of  Directors;  serving  as  a member  on  the  Air  Force  Services  Council;  chairing  the  Air  Force  Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) Finance Committee; and serving as a member of the Air Force Aid Society (AFAS) Board of Trustees and the AFAS Executive, Finance, and Audit Committees. A2.4.1.14.  Chairing the Air Force Services Audit Committee. A2.4.1.15.  Co-Chairing the FM Career Field DT with the PDAS. A2.4.1.16.  Serving  as  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Soldiers’  and  Airmen's  Home  (USSAH) Board of Trustees and the General Officer Review Board. A2.4.1.17.  Managing  changes  to  the  Air  Force’s  programming  and  budgeting  data structures,  processes,  and  systems  required  to  submit  Force  and  Financial  Plan  data  to OSD automated systems. A2.4.2.  The  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  for  Cost  and  Economics  (SAF/FMC).  SAF/FMC is responsible for all matters pertaining to preparing guidance, direction, and other governance of the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, and programs relative to cost, economic, and business case analysis across the Air Force.  Specific responsibilities include:  A2.4.2.1.  Directing  and  operating  the  Air  Force  Cost  Analysis  Agency  (AFCAA)  as Executive  Director.    Serving  as  an  advisor  to  the  SAF/FM  on  programmatic  cost assessments and issues. A2.4.2.2.  Chairing  the  Air  Force  Cost  Analysis  Improvement  Group,  responsible  for developing  the  recommended  Air  Force  Service  Cost  Position  for  all  Major  Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and Major Automated Information Systems (MAIS). A2.4.2.3.  Preparing the Component Cost Analysis in support of Milestone decisions on all Air Force MDAP and MAIS when OSD holds Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) and  preparing  the  Independent  Cost  Estimate  required  by  statute  for  MDAP  and  MAIS where MDA is delegated to the Air Force. A2.4.2.4.  Serving as the primary interface with Office of the Director, Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation on cost, economic and business case analysis matters. A2.4.2.5.  Providing  cost,  economic,  financial  and  business  case  analysis  support  to  the Secretariat  and  Air  Staff.    Directing  special  studies  for  SecAF,  CSAF  and  Air  Force HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 11 senior  leaders  in  response  to  internal,  OSD,  OMB  and  Congressional  inquiries.  Reviewing  and  commenting  on  technical  propriety  and  sufficiency  of  cost,  economic, financial or business case analysis for the SecAF, the Under Secretary of the Air Force, CSAF, Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force, OSD, OMB and Congress. A2.4.2.6.  Preparing  or  delegating  the  annual  Non-Advocate  Cost  Assessments  and reviews  program  office  estimates  of  all  Air  Force  pre-MDAP,  MDAP  and  MAIS  to support  the  PPBE  process,  source  selections,  analyses  of  alternatives,  program  cost  and schedule  breaches  for  the  SAF/FM,  Service  Acquisition  Executive  and  Program Executive  Officer,  AF/A5/8,  Air  Force  Corporate  Structure  (AFCS)  and  other  Senior Leadership decisions. A2.4.2.7.  Advising  the  Source  Selection  Authority  and  participating  in  and/or  leading cost evaluation teams on MDAP and MAIS source selections as directed by the SAF/FM, the Defense Acquisition Executive or the Service Acquisition Executive. A2.4.2.8.  Developing  and  administering  cost,  economic  and  business  case  analysis policy,  guidance,  standards  and training,  education  and  professional certification programs and analyst qualification criteria. templates, A2.4.2.9.  Maintaining cost estimating performance and budget portfolio risk metrics. A2.4.2.10.  Managing the Air Force-wide cost and technical data collection and database development  programs  and  developing  cost  estimating  methods  and  models  for  Air Force-wide use. A2.4.2.11.  Developing  guidance  and  publishing  approved  planning  factors  applied across  the  Air  Force  for  programming  and  budgeting  operations  and  support requirements.    Co-Chairing  the  Cost  Per  Flying  Hour  Air  Force  Cost  Analysis Improvement Group responsible for analyzing and performing risk analysis in support of AFCS deliberations. A2.4.2.12.  Preparing  Air  Force-wide  inflation  guidance,  including  inflation  indices, discount  rates  and  foreign  exchange  rates  based  on  OSD  and/or  OMB  guidance.  Identifying the impact of economic changes on Air Force programs and budgets. A2.4.2.13.  Conducting  the  NAF  oversight  program  to  include  establishing  and maintaining oversight of all Air Force NAF Instrumentalities. A2.4.2.14.  Providing  financial  analysis  in  support  of  Air  Force  Services  operations.  Serving as a member of the Air Force Services Council and the Air Force Fisher House Board of Directors, and Chairing the Air Force NAF Investment Subcommittee. A2.4.2.15.  Performing financial analyses of the defense industry and analyzing national and international macroeconomic conditions and their potential impact on the Air Force and DoD to include the impact of Federal Government initiatives. A2.4.2.16.  Providing guidance for comptroller participation in the Air Force Commercial Activities  Program  and  assisting  with  the  development  of  all  cost  data  inputs  for  OMB Circular A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities agency cost estimates. A2.4.2.17.  Maintaining  the  Air  Force  Total  Ownership  Cost  (AFTOC)  System  and publishing AFTOC reports consistent with OSD and Congressional requirements. 12 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 A2.4.2.18.  Serving as an advisor to the SAF/FM on programmatic cost assessments and issues. A2.4.2.19.  Serving as an FM Career Field DT Voting Member. A2.4.3.  The  Workforce  Management and  Executive  Services  Directorate (SAF/FME).  SAF/FME  is  responsible  for  all  matters  pertaining  to  administrative  support and  workforce  development  for  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (Financial  Management  and  Comptroller)  and  serves  as  the  FM  Functional  Career  Field Manager.    This  includes  workforce  development,  wartime  planning,  human  capital management,  strategic  communications,  management  analysis,  and  strategic  planning.  Responsibilities include the following: A2.4.3.1.  Acting  as  the  SAF/FM  focal  point  for  the  DoD  FM  Certification  Program, career field education and training, and workforce management and providing guidance, direction, and coordination to meet training needs and establishing specialty descriptions, course outlines, and supplemental course requirements. A2.4.3.2.  Serving  as  the  SAF/FM  focal  point  for  comptroller  wartime  and  contingency planning to support the needs of commanders in deliberate and crisis action planning. A2.4.3.3.  Operating  as  the  primary  personnel  point  of  contact  for  all  SAF/FM  military personnel and the human resources liaison for all SAF/FM civilian personnel. A2.4.3.4.  Planning  and  programming the  allocation  and  control  of  resources, organization, requirements determination, and performance management for the SAF/FM Portfolio’s force structure. Advising and consulting the SAF/FM Secretariat and the Air Force FM functional community. A2.4.3.5.  Managing the Documentation Management Program, Freedom  of Information Act  inquiries,  Innovative  Development  through  Employee  Awareness  Program  reviews, and Information Collections and Reports. A2.4.3.6.  Managing  the  unit  security  program,  including  processing  documentation  for access badges and Common Access Cards. A2.4.3.7.  Managing  the  SAF/FM  records  management  program,  reviewing  official correspondence, and receiving/dispatching SAF/FM’s official mail. A2.4.3.8.  Establishing,  controlling,  and  monitoring for  all correspondence  and  Air  Force  workflow  items.    Coordinating  with  OSD  on  Financial Management Review actions. suspense  actions A2.4.3.9.  Managing  supply  and  equipment  accounts  and  the  SAF/FM  government purchase card program. A2.4.3.10.  Managing  the  SAF/FM  operations  and  maintenance  budget  and  providing resource  management  support;  managing  civilian  time  and  attendance  program;  and managing the SAF/FM Government Travel Card and Defense Travel System programs. A2.4.3.11.  Providing  administrative  and  planning  support  for workshops, executive sessions, and seminars.  training  events, HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 13 A2.4.3.12.  Providing  management  consultant  and  advisory  services  for  the  SAF/FM Secretariat and the greater Air Force FM Functional Community. A2.4.3.13.  Providing  communication  materials  in  support  of  the  FM  Newsletter  and Magazine and managing the FM functional website. A2.4.3.14.  Serving  as  the  SAF/FM  Editor-in-Chief  for  the  Air  Force  Comptroller Magazine and FM Newsletter. A2.4.3.15.  Preparing  the  annual  update  of  the  Financial  Management  Future-Year  Plan and the Annual Report to the SecAF on activities  occurring within the SAF/FM during the preceding year in compliance with 10 USC § 8022(d). A2.4.3.16.  Serving  as  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility    for  the  SAF/FM  strategic planning process. Deputy Assistant for Financial Secretary A2.4.4.  The Operations (SAF/FMF).  SAF/FMF  is  responsible  for  advising  the  SAF/FM  on  all  matters  relating  to accounting  and  finance  policy,  financial  systems  and  financial  improvement  and  audit readiness.   As  the  SAF/FM  Chief  Information  Officer  (CIO),  SAF/FMF  provides governance,  management  oversight  and  information  technology  compliance  of  Air  Force financial  management  systems.    These  responsibilities    include  providing  overall  guidance, standardization,  integration,  prioritization,  and  maintenance  of  the  Financial  Management Portfolio  and  Enterprise  Architecture.    SAF/FMF  also  is  responsible  for  data  management and  discipline  for  comptroller  financial  systems  to  include  systems  impacting  the  Financial Statements and FM end-to-end business processes; and management of system security and integrity.    Additionally,  SAF/FMF  provides  program  management  support,  audit  liaison, banking and credit union programs, cash management, and travel computation and payment support for Air Force personnel.  Responsibilities further include: A2.4.4.1.  Performing  activities  related  to  effective  and  efficient  oversight  of  financial management processes and procedures. A2.4.4.2.  Preparing quarterly and annual Air Force Financial Statements, which includes assuring  the  accuracy  of  the  Air  Force  general  ledger  reporting,  disclosing    Air  Force accounting  and  business  practices,  complying  with  Department  of  Defense  financial reporting policy and guidance, and certifying the annual financial statements to the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense (Comptroller). A2.4.4.3.  Managing the Air Force Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness Plan. A2.4.4.4.  Serving  as  the  designated  Air  Force  internal  control  program  administrator.  Directing  and  managing  the  Air  Force  MICP  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Federal Manager’s  Financial  Integrity  Act,  OMB  Circular  A-123,  Management’s  Responsibility for Internal Control, OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A, Internal Control over Financial Reporting, Comptroller General standards, and DoD guidance. A2.4.4.5.  Serving  as  the  designated  audit  follow-up  official.    Ensuring  the  effective execution of the Air Force audit follow-up program as directed by OMB Circular A-50, Audit  Follow-up;  and  DoDD  7650.3,  Follow-up  on  General  Accounting  Office  (GAO), DoD Inspector General (DoD IG), and Internal Audit Reports. 14 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 A2.4.4.6.  Serving as the Air Force focal point for procurement of Financial Management studies, reviews, etc., related to accounting policy and systems matters. A2.4.4.7.  Serving  as  the  Air  Force’s  Anti-deficiency  Act  (ADA)  program  manager  for identifying, investigating, reporting, monitoring and processing potential ADA violations. A2.4.4.8.  Promoting  the  advancement  and  accounting  control  and  oversight  of  contract financing for advanced pay pool agreements. A2.4.4.9.  While serving as the SAF/FM CIO, performing the following duties: A2.4.4.9.1.  Providing  guidance  and  oversight  of  FM  Information  Assurance, Portfolio  Management,  FM  presence  on  the  Air  Force  Portal,  FM  Enterprise Architecture,  FM  Service  Oriented  Architecture,  FM  Knowledge  Management, Enterprise  Data  Management,  Financial  Improvement  Plan  and  FM  Enterprise Architecture and standardization of FM data in coordination with SAF/CIO A6 and OSD guidance.  implementation assertion, including the development, A2.4.4.9.2.  Providing technical support to include the development, sustainment, and operations  of  current  Air  Force  Financial  Management  standard  systems  and introducing  technology  improvements  for  future  financial  system  operations, including the development, sustainment, operations and training. A2.4.4.9.3.  Leading  FM  data  management  efforts  to  comply  with  Congressional, OSD and OMB direction. A2.4.4.9.4.  Managing  functional  requirements  received  from  MAJCOM,  OSD,  and SecAF; coordinate requirements with SAF CIO/A6; and ensuring alignment with FM capabilities to support Title 10 responsibilities. A2.4.4.9.5.  Chairing  the  Capabilities  Review  and  Investment  Board  to  evaluate investments based upon alignment of requirements to capabilities. A2.4.4.9.6.  Serving  as  the  FM  focal  point  and  representing  FM  on  the  Air  Force Community of Interest (COI) Coordination Panel. A2.4.4.9.7.  Coordinating FM actions with the SAF/CIO A6 and the Air Force Chief Architect.  A2.4.4.10.  Serving  as  the  FM  focal  point  and  representing  FM  on  the  Air  Force Enterprise Senior Working Group and the OSD Defense Business Council. A2.4.4.11.  Providing  guidance  and  acting  as  a  liaison  with  the  AFFSC  to  provide centralized  travel  pay  computation  for  Active  Duty,  Title  10  Reserve,  and  Civilian customers. A2.4.4.12.  Developing accounting and finance policy for financial services and financial management  operations  Air  Force-wide,  including  the  development,  publications  and maintenance of Air Force regulations and policy directives. A2.4.4.13.  Advising  the  Air  Force  Review  Boards  Agency  (SAF/MRB)  on  Air  Force remission  cases.    Reviewing  and  providing  approval  recommendations  as  well  as performing system updates resulting from SAF/MRB adjudication. HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 15 A2.4.4.14.  Co-Chairing  with  the  Deputy  Chief  Management  Officer,  the  Financial Improvement and Audit  Readiness Committee to lead audit readiness activities with the goal  to  achieve  and  maintain  an  unqualified  audit  opinion  on  the  Air  Force  financial statements.   Providing  management  oversight  of  financial  management A2.4.4.15.  Leading  the  Accountability  and  Financial  Management  Integrated  Process Team. issues  and coordination  of  Air  Force  activities  and  overall  efforts  to  ensure  that  systems  and processes support the achievement of auditable financial statements. A2.4.4.16.  Serving as the FM focal point and representing FM on governance boards for Enterprise Resource Planning systems. A2.4.4.17.  Serving as an FM Career Field DT Voting Member. A2.4.4.18.  Serving as the FM focal point to approve the establishment and supervise the operation of any asset management system of the Department of the Air Force, including systems  for  cash management, credit management,  and debt  collection;  and systems  for the accounting for the quantity, location, and cost of property and inventory. A2.4.4.19.  Serving as the FM focal point to approve and supervise any project to design or enhance a financial management system for the Department of the Air Force. A2.4.4.20.  Providing  analysis  and  functional  oversight,  in  conjunction  with  Air  Force MAJCOMs, of Air Force base-level financial management operations including military pay,  civilian  pay,  travel  pay,  disbursing  operations,  and  accounting  operations  for  the active component, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. A2.4.4.21.  Managing  the  Air  Force  Comptroller  Quality  Assurance  program  and providing  functional  oversight  of  internal  controls,  fraud  prevention,  and  independent reviews of base-level financial operations. A2.4.4.22.  Serving  as  the  primary  Air  Force  liaison  with  the  Defense  Finance  and Accounting  Service  (DFAS)  on  all  financial  management  issues  relating  to  DFAS support to Air Force customers and financial management policies and procedures. A2.4.4.23.  Serving  as  the  Air  Force  program  manager  for  the  Defense  Travel  System, including development of policies for Air Force use and operation of DTS. A2.4.4.24.  Providing  functional  oversight  of  banking  operations  on  Air  Force installations world-wide. A2.4.4.25.  Providing  program  management  and  oversight  of  the  Government  Travel Card program within the Air Force. A2.4.5.  The  Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  for  Programs  (SAF/FMP).    SAF/FMP  is responsible  for  matters  pertaining  to  integrating,  evaluating,  and  analyzing  the  Air  Force Program  across  the  FYDP.    SAF/FMP  is  also  responsible  for  programming  all  Air  Force appropriations  and  assigned  funds  including  option  development,  option  pricing,  and maintaining  programmatic  data  structure,  process  and  systems.    Specific  responsibilities include: A2.4.5.1.  Developing and submitting annual POMs developed to provide a balanced risk resource allocation plan for the Air Force FYDP. 16 HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 A2.4.5.2.  Reviewing, developing, and evaluating funding options for the Secretary of the Air  Force  and  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Air  Force  to  meet  worldwide  air,  space,  and  cyber requirements while balancing force readiness and sustainability with force modernization. A2.4.5.3.  Analyzing  and  evaluating  programs  and  force  projections  for  balancing, phasing, and feasibility in relation to known and anticipated availability of resources and higher authority decisions. A2.4.5.4.  Analyzing impacts of programming decisions and force structure requirements on major acquisition programs  and in  conjunction  with  SAF/AQ, AF/A9, and AF/A5/8, assessing  viability  of  these  programs  to  meet  national  requirements  and  to  provide warfighting capabilities. A2.4.5.5.  Establishing  Air  Force  policy  in  coordination  with  AF/A5/8  for  resource allocation and the PPBE process. A2.4.5.6.  Coordinating  with  Concept  of  Operations  organizations  and  other  Air  Staff organizations  to  ensure  coherent  capabilities-based  programming  and  efficient/effective resource allocation. A2.4.5.7.  Functioning  as  the  Air  Staff  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  for  all matters pertaining to formulating, directing, and amending the Air Force Program to meet worldwide  force  requirements  across  the  full  spectrum  of  air,  space,  and  cyber  space combat capabilities. A2.4.5.8.  Providing  a  comprehensive  and  overall  assessment  of  the  total  Air  Force Program from a programming perspective and coordinating budgeting perspectives with SAF/FMB. A2.4.5.9.  Preparing  program  briefings  for  senior  Air  Force  leadership  (Air  Force Corporate  Structure,  Secretary  and  CSAF,)  on  resource  allocation  and  programmatic issues,  defending  the  Air  Force  POM/Budget  Estimate  Submission  (BES),  analyzing Issue Papers, and accomplishing offset drills as needed. A2.4.5.10.  Chairing the  Air Force Group  and the Air Force Board for  all programming  matters  and  Co-Chairing  the  Air  Force  Group/Board  for  budget  formulation  and execution.    Maintaining  the  integrity  of  the  Air  Force  Corporate  Process.    Providing information  and  briefings  to  the  Air  Force  Council  for  corporate  decisions.    Providing recommendations from the Corporate Process to the CSAF/SecAF. A2.4.5.11.  Developing  annual  Programming  Guidance  in  accordance  with  Fiscal Guidance,  overarching  National  and  Defense  guidance,  Plan  to  Program  Guidance, Resource Allocation Plan, and the Air Force Strategic Master Plan and priorities. A2.4.5.12.  Serving  as  an  advisor  to  the  SAF/FM  on  feasibility  and  pricing  of  options related  to  the  programming  for  all  Air  Force  appropriations  (including  the  Air  National Guard and Air Force Reserve). A2.4.5.13.  Serving  as  the  primary  advisor  to  the  SAF/FM  on  programmatic  issues, objectives  and  strategies,  and  providing  program  assessments  and  alternative  program options. HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 17 A2.4.5.14.  Maintaining  close  working  relationships  with  the  AF/A5/8  planners  and budget  leadership  to  ensure  a  smooth  transition  between  all  phases  of  the  planning, programming and budgeting process. A2.4.5.15.  Serving as the primary Air Force organization responsible for reviewing and evaluating programmatic Resource Management  Decisions (RMDs) issued by OSD  and coordinating the evaluation of Budget RMDs with SAF/FMB. A2.4.5.16.  Assessing  the  impact  RMDs  have  on  Air  Force  programs  and  budgets,  and recommending  reclama/rebuttal  actions  to  the  CSAF  and  the  SecAF  through  the  Air Force Corporate Review Process.   A2.4.5.17.  Advising  the  AFB  /CSAF/SecAF  on  the  feasibility  of  programmatic disconnects and offsets.   A2.4.5.18.  Evaluating  cross-cutting  options  that  will  generate  savings  and  efficiency across the Air Force to be used as offsets for higher priority requirements. A2.4.5.19.  Providing  guidance  and  direction  to  the  Secretariat,  Air  Staff,  and  Major Commands (MAJCOMs) for the development of programming options. A2.4.5.20.  Coordinating  changes  to  the  Air  Force’s  programming  data  structure, processes, and systems required to submit Force and Financial Plan data. A2.4.5.21.  Serving as an FM Career Field DT Voting Member. A2.4.6.  The  Financial  Management  Career  Field  Management  Team  (FMCFMT) (SAF/FMT).  SAF/FMT  manages  the  careers  of  officer-equivalent  civilians  within  the  FM career  field  by  developing  highly  competent  executives  through  a  variety  of  training  and developmental  programs.   Additionally,  the  SAF/FMT  provides  for  the  systematic development  of  candidates  for  Senior  Executive  Service  positions  through  various  force development  initiatives  to  include  participation  in  the  Civilian  Strategic  Leader  Program (CSLP).  Responsibilities include the following: A2.4.6.1.  Assigning  civilians  IAW  Development  Team  (DT)  vectors  and  balances  AF mission requirements with individual development of civilians.    A2.4.6.2.  Publishing and updating DT Guide and makes it available via AF Portal on the Force Development Page.  A2.4.6.3.  Training DT  members, as required, on DT processes, information technology (IT) tools and special selection procedures. A2.4.6.4.  Providing  the  DT  with  a  general  overview  of  the  type  of  utilization  and/or development opportunities available for civilians at the appropriate pay band/grade so the DT can provide realistic and actionable vector recommendations.  A2.4.6.5.  Executing assignments within established guidance and prioritization plans. A2.4.6.6.  Providing  appropriate  inventory  data  and  appropriate  force  management policies (i.e. force shaping, promotion policies, etc.), at the start of each DT meeting. A2.4.6.7.  Providing  input  to  AFPC/DPA/DPI  and  AF/A1D  regarding  automated  tools, and other resources required to execute force development. HAFMD1-12  25 NOVEMBER 2015 A2.4.6.8.  Working  with  the  FM  Career  Field  Manager  (CFM)  to  ensure  coverage  of career field issues at accession and training conferences, as appropriate. A2.4.6.9.  Developing and maintaining metrics to measure the correlation of DT vectors with actual assignments, and provide an annual summary to AF/A1.  18  