BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE HAF MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-28 10 DECEMBER 2015  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY:  There are no release restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  SAF/PA  Supersedes:  HAFMD 1-28, 26 December 2013  SUMMARY OF CHANGES Certified by: SAF/PA  (Brig. Gen. Kathleen A. Cook) Pages: 9  This  publication  has  been  revised  to  comply  with  current  formatting  guidelines  in  accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, and Headquarters Operating Instruction (HOI) 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives – Delegations of Statutory Authority and Assignments of Responsibilities.  1.  Mission.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SecAF),  pursuant  to  10  USC  §  8013-8016,  may establish offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the Secretary in carrying out his or her  responsibilities.    As  documented  by  paragraph  4.2.7  of  AFMD  1,  Headquarters  Air  Force, and this Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAF MD), the Directorate of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) is established as part of the Secretariat.  SAF/PA has overall responsibility for public affairs activities for the Department of the Air Force.  The SecAF retains ultimate responsibility for  all  policies  related  to  the  Department  of  the  Air  Force.    Within  his  or  her  areas  of responsibility,  SAF/PA  prepares  policies  for  approval  and  issues  official  guidance  and procedures via official AF publications to ensure implementation of those policies. 2.  Organizational  Relationships.  The  SecAF  is  responsible  for,  and  has  all  legal  authority necessary, to conduct the affairs of the Department of the Air Force.  The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the SecAF. 2 HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 2.1.  SAF/PA  reports  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary within assigned policy and program domains and provides guidance, direction and oversight for  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  formulation,  review  and  execution  of  plans,  policies, programs  and  budgets  within  his/her  area  of  responsibility.    SAF/PA  is  accountable  to  the Secretary  for  results  achieved  within  the  policy  and  program  domains  assigned  by  this Directive. 2.2.  SAF/PA is part of the Secretariat and as such, works closely with other HAF offices to assist the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out his/her responsibilities.  SAF/PA and the office  of  the  SAF/PA  work  in  cooperation  with  other  HAF  organizations,  which  are responsible  pursuant  to  Chapters  803  and  805  of  Title  10  (10  USC  §§  8013-8023  and  §§ 8031-8038),  for  assisting  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  in  carrying  out  his  or  her responsibilities. 2.3.  Reporting  to  SAF/PA  is  one  Field  Operating  Agency,  the  Air  Force  Public  Affairs Agency (AFPAA), whose responsibilities are assigned in AFMD 28. 3.  Responsibilities.  SAF/PA is specifically responsible for: 3.1.  Planning,  supervising,  organizing,  conducting,  evaluating,  and  assessing  the  impact  of public affairs operations to communicate timely, truthful, accurate and credible information about  Air  Force  activities  to  internal  and  external  military  and  civilian  domestic  and international audiences. 3.2.  Developing  and  implementing  SecAF  and  CSAF  long-range  communication  strategies and integrated communication plans. 3.3.  Implementing  processes  and  procedures the communication  efforts  of  Air  Force  organizations  and  personnel  to  ensure  that  information from official sources is accurate and consistent with Air Force policy. that  synchronize  and integrate 3.4.  Delivering candid, timely and trusted counsel and guidance to Air Force leaders on the communication implications of key decisions and projected effects on the ability of the Air Force to carry out its vision, mission and priorities. 3.5.  Providing direction, guidance and oversight  for public affairs operations across the Air Force. 3.6.  Organizing, training and equipping public affairs forces to achieve global influence and deterrence by  executing  public affairs operations for Air Force and combatant commanders and other DoD organizations. 3.7.  Working  with  journalists,  academia,  opinion  leaders,  business  leaders  and  state  and local  government  officials  to  continually  maintain  and  enhance  public  trust  and  support  of the Air Force. 3.8.  Enhancing Airmen morale and readiness by communicating the Air Force’s key themes and messages. 3.9.  Evaluating communication efforts and assessing the communication effects of Air Force activities.  3.10.  Planning,  budgeting,  advocating  and  defending  PA  program  requirements  to  the  Air Force Corporate Structure. HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 3 3.11.  Ensuring  consistent,  superior  performance  among  Air  Force  public  affairs  forces  by providing collaborative communication tools and methodologies. 3.12.  Providing  other  management  headquarters  functions  for  public  affairs  activities,  to include program review and evaluation and resource distribution and allocation. 3.13.  Maintaining  a  central  visual  information  management  office  at  the  Component headquarters level. 3.14.  Planning,  programming,  authorizing  and  maintaining  resources  and  capabilities sufficient  to  provide  visual  information  documentation  and  related  mission  services necessary for accomplishing Air Force and Department of Defense (DoD) missions. 3.15.  Organizing,  training  and  equipping  combat  camera  personnel  and  units  to  provide highly responsive imagery acquisition, processing and transmission capabilities in support of Air  Force  and  DoD  operational  and  planning  requirements  during  wartime  operations, worldwide crises, contingencies and joint exercises. 3.16.  Ensuring  the  availability  of  aircrew-qualified  and  equipped  combat  camera  personnel to support operational requirements. 3.17.  Ensuring  the  availability  of  combat  camera  personnel  qualified  and  equipped  to centrally manage, process and distribute both classified and unclassified imagery to support joint operations. 3.18.  Planning,  programming,  authorizing  and  maintaining  resources  and  capabilities sufficient to create, acquire and manage visual information productions to support Air Force and DoD requirements. 3.19.  Managing  the  Air  Force’s  corporate  communication  planning  process  via  the Communication Integration Group and supporting working bodies. 3.20.  Management  and  operation  of  Air  Force  social  media  sites  ensuring  factual representation of the Air Force to the public, and the development of social media out-reach tools for Air Force senior leaders; and 4.  Delegations  of  Authority/Assignment  of  Responsibility.  Attachment  1  lists  delegated authorities/assignments  of  responsibility  to  SAF/PA.    The  authorities  delegated/responsibilities assigned  by  this  HAF  MD  may  generally  be  re-delegated  unless  re-delegation  is  expressly prohibited  by  the  attached  delegation  or  superseding  law,  regulation  or  DoD  issuance.    While SAF/PA may re-delegate authorities to other Department of the Air Force officials, he or she will ultimately be responsible to the Secretary of the Air Force for all matters relating to public affairs activities.    Any  re-delegation  of  authority/re-assignment  of  responsibility  made  shall  not  be effective unless it is in writing.  Any person re-delegating authority/re-assigning responsibility in accordance with this HAF MD may further restrict or condition the authority/responsibility being re-delegated/re-assigned. 5.  Notifications  to  Congress.  No  re-delegation  of  authority/assigned  responsibility  under  this HAF MD below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit office shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress. 6.  Continuation of Prior Re-Delegations of Authority/Assignment of Responsibilities.  HAF MD 1-28, 26 December 2013, is hereby superseded.  Re-delegations of authorities/assignments 4 HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 of responsibility made pursuant to that HAF MD prior to the date of issuance of this HAF MD; however,  remain  effective  insofar  as  such  re-delegations  are  not  inconsistent  with  the  terms  of this HAF MD, or unless superseded by a new re-delegation.  Deborah L. James Secretary of the Air Force HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 5 ATTACHMENT 1 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITIES/ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS A1.1.  Authority relating  to  DoD newspapers, magazines and civilian enterprise publications as delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  Department  of  Defense  Instruction (DoDI)  5120.4,  Department  of  Defense  Newspapers,  Magazines  and  Civilian  Enterprise Publications. A1.2.  Authority relating to the Defense Media Activity (DMA) as delegated to the Secretary of the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  Department  of  Defense  Directive  (DoDD)  5105.74,  Defense  Media Activity (DMA). A1.3.  Authority relating to the Stars and Stripes Newspapers as delegated to the Secretary of the Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDD  5122.11,  Stars  and  Stripes  (S&S)  Newspapers  and  Business Operations. A1.4.  Authority relating to the position of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5122.05, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (ASD(PA)). A1.5.  Authority relating to the use of military carriers for public affairs purposes as delegated to the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDI  5435.2,  Delegation  of  Authority  to  Approve Travel  in  and  Use  of  Military  Carriers  for  Public  Affairs  Purposes  and  DoDD  5122.8,  Use  of Military Carriers for Public Affairs Purposes.  Re-delegation of the authority to approve the use of military carriers for non-local travel for those other than news media representatives may not be lower than Commanders of Major Commands. A1.6.  Authority relating to DoD public affairs and visual information education and training as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5160.48, DoD Public Affairs and Visual Information (PA&VI) Education and Training (E&T). A1.7.  Authority  relating  to  the  release  of  information  to  the  public  in  the  event  of  nuclear accidents  or  significant  incidents  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to DoDD 5230.16, Nuclear Accident and Incident Public Affairs (PA) Guidance. A1.8.  Authority  relating  to  the  security  and  policy  review  of  DoD  information  intended  for public release as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DoD Information for Public Release. A1.9.  Authority  relating  to  the  security  and  policy  review  process  for  the  clearance  of  official DoD  information  proposed  for  official  public  release  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release. A1.10.  Authority  relating  to  public  affairs  operations  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5400.13, Public Affairs (PA) Operations. A1.11.  Authority relating to the conduct of public affairs programs in support of joint, combined and unilateral military operations as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5400.14, Procedures for Joint Public Affairs Operations. 6 HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 A1.12.  Authority relating to the development of proposed public affairs guidance as given to the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDI  5405.3,  Development  of  Proposed  Public  Affairs Guidance (PPAG). A1.13.  Authority  relating  to  the  release  of  information  concerning  military  personnel  or equipment involved in accidents as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5410.01,  Release  of  Information  Concerning  Accidents  Involving  Military  Personnel  or Equipment or Concerning Senior Personnel. A1.14.  Authority  relating to  non-government,  non- entertainment-oriented  print  and  electronic  media  as  given  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force pursuant  to  DoDI  5410.15,  DoD  Public  Affairs  Assistance  to  Non-Government,  Non- Entertainment-Oriented Print and Electronic Media. to  DoD  public  affairs  assistance A1.15.  Authority relating to DoD assistance to non-government, entertainment-oriented motion picture, television, and video productions as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5410.16, DoD Assistance to Non-Government, Entertainment-Oriented Motion Picture, Television and Video Productions. A1.16.  Authority  relating  to  public  affairs  community  relations  activities  and  programs throughout the DoD as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5410.18, Public  Affairs  Community  Relations  Policy  and  DoDI  5410.19,  Public  Affairs  Community Relations Policy Implementation. A1.17.  Authority  relating  to  public  affairs  relations  with  business  and  non-governmental organizations representing business as given to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5410.20,  Public  Affairs  Relations  with  Business  and  Non-Governmental  Organizations Representing Business. A1.18.  Authority relating to visual information productions as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDI 5040.07, Visual Information (VI) Production Productions. A1.19.  Authority  relating  to  visual  information  as  delegated  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force pursuant to DoDI 5040.02, Visual Information (VI) Productions. A1.20.  Authority relating to American Forces Radio and Television Service as delegated to the Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  pursuant  to  DoDI  5120.20,  American  Forces  Radio  and  Television Service (AFRTS) . A1.21.  Authority  relating to branding  and trademark licensing  as delegated to  the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to DoDD 5535.09, DoD Branding and Trademark Licensing Program.  HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 ATTACHMENT 2 DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS (SAF/PA) 7  integration, A2.1.  The  SAF/PA  is  responsible  for  the  overall  supervision  of  all  matters  pertaining  to  the planning,  development, synchronization,  and  assessment  of  Air  Force communication  efforts,  supporting  the  objectives  and  obligations  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air Force (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) as they relate to the dissemination of public information.  He or she advises the SECAF and CSAF and senior leaders within the HAF, Major  Commands  (MAJCOM),  Field  Operating  Agencies  (FOA)  and  Direct  Reporting  Units (DRU)  on  public  affairs  operations.    The  SAF/PA  plans,  executes,  and  assesses  the  impact  of communication strategies to inform the public and other key stakeholders of issues related to Air Force personnel,  resources and missions; oversees worldwide public affairs force management, development  and  readiness;  and  directs  public  engagement,  media  operations  and  command information programs.  The SAF/PA office includes a small staff support element that manages tasking  processes,  administrative  and  personnel  actions,  security  and  policy  review,  records management and planning, programming, budgeting and execution activity for the directorate. A2.2.  Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include: A2.2.1.  Strategy  and  Assessments  (SAF/PAX).    SAF/PAX  is  responsible  for  developing, facilitating,  supervising,  evaluating,  and  assessing  the  impact  of  SecAF  and  CSAF communication  strategies  and  public  affairs  activities  for  the  Air  Force.    SAF/PAX establishes  communication  objectives  based  on  AF  priorities,  develops  associated  communication  plans,  and  integrates  and  synchronizes  communication  efforts  designed  to support  Top-6,  2-letter  organizations  and  MAJCOM  communication  efforts.    SAF/PAX conducts  research  of  the  communication  environment  to  establish  a  baseline  for  long-term and  mid-term  communication  planning.    SAF/PAX  provides  communication  advice  and planning  support  to  senior  leadership  regarding  Air  Force  communication  priorities,  issues and  initiatives.    SAF/PAX  supports  awareness  of  the  current  communication  environment, assesses and evaluates the effectiveness of communication products, processes and programs, and  recommends  appropriate  actions  and  adaptations  to  future  plans  and  operations.    In support  of  the  deliberate  communication  planning  process,  SAF/PAX  manages  the Communication  Integration  Group  and  supporting  working  bodies.    Along  with  SAF/PAO, 8 HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 SAF/PAX co-leads integrated, cross-functional issue teams to develop proactive engagement options in support of rapid responses to emerging opportunities or crisis events.  A2.2.2.  Engagement  Division  (SAF/PAY).    SAF/PAY  is  responsible  for  developing  and executing  public  engagement  programs  to  build  sustained  public  understanding,  trust  and support  for  Air  Force  personnel  and  missions,  to  include  oversight  of  service  community engagement policies.  SAF/PAY recommends, coordinates and supports Air Force speakers, aviation assets and bands who appear at key events open to the general public.  The division manages the Air Force public flyover and national speakers programs and is the public affairs liaison  to  Air  Force  Recruiting  Service.    The  division  also  manages  civic  leader engagements,  increasing  awareness  and  understanding  of  the  Air  Force  among  influential individuals at the national, state and local levels through community leader visits and various national  civic  leader  orientation  programs.    SAF/PAY  also  is  responsible  for  media  and opinion  leader  engagement  and  conducts  media  training  for  senior  Air  Force  and  joint leaders.  In cooperation with the New York City field office, the division works with major newspapers,  magazines,  television  programs  and  other  media  outlets  on  long-term  projects highlighting  Air  Force  personnel  and  missions.    In  conjunction  with  the  Air  Force Entertainment  Liaison  Office  in  Los  Angeles,  SAF/PAY  reviews  and  recommends opportunities to increase public awareness of Airmen and Air Force capabilities through the U.S.  motion  picture  and  television  industry  and  orchestrates  placement  in  IMAX  and documentary films.  SAF/PAY also improves national opinion leaders’ understanding of Air Force  programs  and  issues  by  facilitating  background  and  off-the-record  conversations between  senior  Service  officials  and  national-level  editorial  boards,  syndicated  columnists, academic organizations and major defense or security policy analysts. A2.2.3.  Media  Operations  Division  (SAF/PAO).    SAF/PAO  is  responsible  for  providing information  to  the  public  (national  and  international)  on  Air  Force  policies,  programs, activities and issues through independent  and DoD media.  The division runs the Air Force Press Desk, which is the Service’s primary point of contact with national radio and television networks,  web-based  news  organizations,  wire  services,  national  and  regional  newspapers, magazines and trade journals.  Press Desk operations are supported by teams that specialize in  tracking,  identifying  and  responding  to  emerging  issues  of  media  interest  in  specific mission  areas  established  by  the  current  Air  Force  strategy.    SAF/PAO  teams  recommend media operations courses of action to Air Force leadership; provide public affairs guidance to the field on media relations  issues; arrange media interviews with key Air Force leaders; and provide pre-interview training or other media relations support.  SAF/PAO also coordinates Air Force policies, programs,  activities and issues with  SAF/PAI for dissemination through command information print, broadcast, imagery and web-based products to all Airmen and to the Defense Media Activity. A2.2.4.  Requirements and Development Division (SAF/PAR).  SAF/PAR is responsible for developing  the  vision  for  future  public  affairs  capabilities,  creating  plans  to  realize  those future  capabilities  and  providing  leadership  to  the  public  affairs  career  field  for  effectively developing  and  executing  those  capabilities.    SAF/PAR  establishes,  manages  and  oversees force development  and management, training programs and educational  curricula for public affairs forces;  advocates Air  Force public affairs equities in  the development of DoD, joint and  Service  directives  and  doctrine;  integrates  public  affairs  capabilities  into  operational planning and execution guidance; reviews joint and Air Force deployment requirements; and HAFMD1-28  10 DECEMBER 2015 9 develops  policies  and  programs  that  ensure  the  expeditionary  readiness  of  public  affairs forces. A2.2.5.  Command Information Division (SAF/PAI).  SAF/PAI is  responsible for providing information to all Airmen on Air Force policies, programs, activities and issues through Air Force and DoD media.  The division develops and coordinates Air Force policy for command information,  social  media,  public  web,  trademark  and  licensing  and  visual  information,  to include  Air  Force  combat  camera.    SAF/PAI  chairs  the  Air  Force  public  affairs  equipment review  panel  and  is  the  program  element  manager  for  the  public  affairs  3080  account.    It oversees  the  Air  Force  public  affairs  flying  program  and  are  responsible  for  the  Air  Force Media contest and the visual information production awards.  SAF/PAI is also the Air Force public affairs liaison with the DMA for all strategic themes and messages and the look and feel of Air Force products produced by the DMA for the Air Force.  SAF/PAI operates the Pentagon  News  Bureau  to  cover  Air  Force  senior  leader  messages  to  all  Airmen.    Finally, SAF/PAI  represents  SAF/PA  at  the  Defense  Visual  Information  Steering  Group,  the  DoD Public  Web  Steering  Committee  and  to  the  DMA  Joint  Assingment  Desk,  and  attends  the Joint Combat Camera Planning Group. A2.2.6.  Bands  Division  (SAF/PAB).    SAF/PAB  manages  all  aspects  of  Air  Force  bands program  policy  and  guidance,  officer  and  enlisted  manpower  requirements,  advertising, accessions and assignments for active duty bands.  SAF/PAB oversees Air Force band AEF posturing, sourcing and in-theater capability utilization, to include Air Force band support of the  Joint  Forces  Headquarters  State  Funeral  Plan.    SAF/PAB  recommends  and  coordinates band involvement in  events  of international  importance, appearances at  sporting events  and nationally  televised  broadcasts.    The  division  oversees  total  force  development  in coordination  with  the  Chief  of  ANG  Bands  to  include  the  Career  Field  Education  and Training Plan.  The division sets band recording policy, advises SAF/PA on the use of music in Air Force video and audio products and has oversight on band websites and social media platforms.    It  coordinates  band  Transportation  Authorizations,  equipment  allowance standards and ceremonial uniform and facility requirements.  In addition, SAF/PAB collects, stores, analyzes and organizes relevant mission data for report to Air Staff and answers band-related public, Congressional and White House inquiries.  