BY ORDER OF THE  SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 1-19 28 APRIL 2017      DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE, MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.  OPR:  SAF/MG  Supersedes:  HAFMD 1-19, 3 October 2016  SUMMARY OF CHANGES Certified by: SAF/MG  (Ms. Marilyn M. Thomas) Pages: 7 This publication supersedes Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive (MD) 1-19 dated 3 October 2016.  This publication updates the MD to reflect changes in the function of the Deputy Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (Management)  resulting  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force memo, Delegations of Authority for the Air Force Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and  Execution  (SPPBE)  Process,  dated  20  December  2016.    It  also  corrects  a  critical  function inadvertently omitted during the previous publication.  These changes include:  (1) designating oversight  of  the  development,  evaluation,  maintenance,  and  process  improvement  of  SPPBE procedural  policy  to  SAF/MG,  and  (2)  designating  SAF/MG  as  the  Requirements  Approval Authority (RAA) for HAF support services contracts greater than or equal to $10 million.  1.  Mission.  The  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  (SecAF),  pursuant  to  Title  10  United  States  Code Sections (USC §§) 8013-8016, may establish offices and officials within the Secretariat to assist the  Secretary  in  carrying  out  his/her  responsibilities.    As  documented  by  paragraph  4.1.7  of AFMD 1, Headquarters Air Force, and this Headquarters Air Force (HAF) mission directive, the Deputy Under Secretary  of the Air Force, Management (SAF/MG) is  established  as part of the Secretariat.  The SAF/MG has overall responsibility for developing and implementing Air Force business  transformation  initiatives, leading the  Air Force Office of  Business  Transformation as its Director of  Business  Management,  and performing duties as the  Deputy Chief Management Officer (DCMO) in support of the Under Secretary of the Air Force’s overall management of Air 2 HAFMD1-19  28 APRIL 2017 Force business operations as the Air Force’s Chief Management Officer.  Additionally, SAF/MG performs such additional duties and responsibilities as are assigned by the Under Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF) relating to the management of business operations for the Department of the Air Force.  The SecAF retains ultimate responsibility for all policies related to the Department of the Air Force.  Within his/her areas of responsibility, the SAF/MG prepares policies for approval and  issues  official  guidance  via  official  AF  publications  to  ensure  implementation  of  those policies. 2.  Organizational  Relationships.  The  SecAF  is  responsible  for,  and  has  all  legal  authority necessary to conduct, the affairs of the Department of the Air Force.  The Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), and Air Staff offices perform their Department of the Air Force functions subject to the authority, direction and control of the SecAF. 2.1.  The  SAF/MG  reports  to  the  USecAF,  serves  as  an  agent  of  the  Secretary  within assigned policy and program domains, and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets  within his/her area of responsibility.  The SAF/MG is  accountable to  the Secretary for results achieved within the policy and program domains assigned by this directive. 2.2.  The  SAF/MG  and  the  Office  of  the  SAF/MG  work  in  cooperation  with  the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA), Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM), Assistant Secretary of the  Air  Force  for  Acquisition  (SAF/AQ),  General  Counsel  (SAF/GC),  Auditor  General (SAF/AG),  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force  for  Manpower  and  Reserve  Affairs (SAF/MR),  Air  Force  Chief  Information  Officer  (SAF/CIO  A6),  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for Manpower,  Personnel,  and  Services  (AF/A1),  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Logistics, Engineering,  and  Force  Protection  (AF/A4),  and  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Strategic  Plans and  Programs  (AF/A5/8)  and  their  respective  offices,  as  well  as  other  HAF  organizations, which are responsible, pursuant to Chapters 803 and 805 of Title 10 (10 USC §§ 8013-8023 and §§ 8031-8038), for assisting the SecAF in carrying out his/her responsibilities. 3.  Responsibilities.  SAF/MG is specifically responsible for: 3.1.  Serving as the DCMO, and in that capacity, directly supporting the Under Secretary in his/her execution of statutory duties as the Air  Force Chief Management  Officer (CMO) as defined in 10 USC § 132 note (codifies FY08 Public Law 110-181 § 904(b)). 3.2.  Serving as the Director of Business Management and leading the Air Force’s Office of Business Transformation in accordance with 10 USC § 2222 note (codifies FY09 Public Law 110-417, § 908) and consistent with Department of Defense (DoD) policies. 3.3.  Providing principal support for the Under Secretary of the Air Force’s duties as the Air Force  pre-certification  official  for  Air  Force  business  systems  investment  requirements  and facilitation  of  OSD  certification  and  investment  spend  in  accordance  with  10  USC  §  2222 Business  Transformation  Initiatives  for  the  Military  Departments  and  OSD  investment guidance. 3.4.  Ensuring  defense  business  systems  accountability  and  modernization  in  compliance with  10  USC  §  2222  and  as  otherwise  described  in  HAF  Mission  Directive  1-2,  Under Secretary of the Air Force. HAFMD1-19  28 APRIL 2017 3 3.5.  Working  in  close  coordination  with  the  OSD  DCMO  (ODCMO)  and  Assistant ODCMO,  as  well  as  SAF/CIO  A6,  to  identify  and  exchange  information  necessary  to facilitate execution of DoD business transformation initiatives. 3.6.  Serving  as  an  Air  Force  principal  representative  on  the  Defense  Business  Council chaired by the ODCMO.  The SAF/MG is supported in this role by the Air Force Assistant Deputy Chief Management Officer (ADCMO). 3.7.  Providing principal support for the Under Secretary’s authority relating to implementing DoD Continuous Process Improvement (CPI)/Lean Six Sigma (LSS) programs, policies, and procedures  within  the  Air  Force  to  improve  overall  effectiveness  and  efficiency  across missions and functions to gain the broadest possible range of organizational improvements; developing  and  implementing  CPI/LSS  education,  training,  and  certification  procedures consistent  with  DoD-wide  guidelines  and  standards,  to  include  a  CPI/LSS  award  and CPI/LSS  in  individual  employee  performance  objectives  as  appropriate;  attaining  DoD-designated training and project targets; and providing representation to the DoD CPI Senior Steering  Committee  and  its  supporting  bodies,  pursuant  to  DoD  Directive  5010.42,  DoD-Wide  Continuous  Process  Improvement  (CPI)/Lean  Six  Sigma  (LSS)  Program,  and  DoD Instruction 5010.43, Implementation and Management of the DoD-Wide Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/LSS) Program. 3.8.  Certifying  that  new  or  updated  Air  Force  Manpower  Standards  were  developed  in accordance with directed process re-engineering initiatives. 3.9.  Maintaining  and  providing  directions  and  policy  for  an  enterprise-wide  systematic performance  improvement  program  to  include  providing  oversight  and  management  of  the Program Action Directive (PAD) and Program Guidance Letter (PGL) process. investment  review  and 3.10.  Establishing  policies  and  approving  business  system certification  processes  and  procedures.    Performing  Air  Force  pre-certification  of  business systems investment requirements and facilitating OSD certification and investment spend in accordance  with  10  USC  §  2222  and  OSD  investment  guidance.    Coordinating  annual business transformation reports to and through ODCMO to include reports to congressional defense committees. 3.11.  Chairing  and  providing  the  secretariat  functions  for  the  Enterprise  Senior  Working Group  (ESWG)  chartered  by  the  SecAF,  which  provides  oversight  for  data  systems  within the Air Force Business  Mission  Area (AFBMA) in  coordination with  SAF/CIO A6 and the information  technology  (IT)  governance  executive  board  to  ensure  IT  investment  planning and  control  are  consistent  with  DoD  and  AF  strategic  plans  and  guidance.    Ensuring  data systems  within  AFBMA  are  enabled  by  sufficient  business  process  reengineering  and executable  Doctrine,  Organization,  Training,  Materiel,  Logistics,  Personnel,  and  Facilities (DOTMLPF)  actions  and  change  management  plans  in  conjunction  with  development  and modernization activities.  Coordinating the AFBMA roadmap with SAF/CIO A6 and the IT governance  executive  board  for  transitioning  business  systems  into  the  Joint  Information Environment (JIE). the  Enterprise  Process 3.12.  Chairing  and  providing Improvement Council (EPIC) chartered by the USecAF to  ensure Air Force strategic goals, change management objectives, and priorities are enabled by ongoing CPI efforts.  Providing the  secretariat  functions  for 4 HAFMD1-19  28 APRIL 2017 recommendations on initiatives to charter, their progress, and approval recommendations for improved  processes  and  related  impacts  (e.g.,  manpower  standard  changes)  and  enabling alignment of Air Force strategic objectives and SecAF- and CSAF-approved initiatives with joint and national priorities. 3.13.  Serving  as  HAF  contract  services  advocate  and  Requirements  Approval  Authority (RAA)  for  support  services  contracts  greater  than  or  equal  to  $10  million,  and  chairing annual  HAF Support  Services Requirements Review (SSRR) Boards.  Providing secretariat and the support element for the HAF SSRR. 3.14.  Providing guidance and oversight of audit recommendation implementation tracking. and responsibilities to assigned the  SAF/MG. 4.  Delegations  of  Authority/Assignment  of  Responsibility.  Attachment  1  lists  delegated authorities authorities delegated/responsibilities assigned to the SAF/MG by this HAF mission directive may generally be  re-delegated  unless  re-delegation  is  expressly  prohibited  by  the  attached  delegation  or superseding law, regulation or DoD issuance.  While the SAF/MG may re-delegate authorities to other Department of Air Force officials, he/she will ultimately be responsible to the Secretary of the  Air  Force  for  all  matters  listed  in  paragraph  1  of  this  publication.    Any  re-delegation  of authority made shall not be effective unless it is in writing.  Any person re-delegating authority in  accordance  with  this  HAF  mission  directive  may  further  restrict  or  condition  the authority/responsibility being re-delegated/re-assigned.   The 5.  Notifications  to  Congress.  No  re-delegation  of  authority/assigned  responsibility  under  this HAF mission directive below the level of a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter/digit office shall include authority to provide notifications or reports to Congress. 6.  Continuation  of  Prior  Re-Delegations  of  Authority/Assignments  of  Responsibility.  Re-delegations of authority/assignments of responsibility made prior to the date of issuance of this HAF mission directive remain effective insofar as such re-delegations are not inconsistent with the terms of this HAF mission directive unless superseded by a new re-delegation or assignment of responsibility.  Lisa S. Disbrow Acting Secretary of the Air Force HAFMD1-19  28 APRIL 2017 5 ATTACHMENT 1 DELEGATIONS OF SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHORITY/ASSIGNMENTS OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (MANAGEMENT) A1.1.  Responsibility relating to ensuring compliance and supporting the Under Secretary of the Air Force in his/her establishment of directions and plans for the Business Mission Area (BMA), oversight of systematic performance in the Department’s business operations, approval of BMA transformation plans and initiatives, establishment of policies, and approving Investment Review Board  processes  and  procedures  and  annual  reports  to  the  congressional  defense  committees, consistent with DoD Directive 5105.82, Department of Defense (DoD) Business Transformation. A1.2.  Responsibility to serve as the Director of Business Management and lead the Air Force’s Office of Business Transformation, as delegated to the Secretary of the Air Force pursuant to 10 USC § 2222 note (codifying FY09 Public Law 110-417, § 908). A1.3.  Responsibility  relating  to  overseeing  the  development,  evaluation,  maintenance,  and process  improvement  of  Strategy,  Planning,  Programming,  Budgeting,  and  Execution  (SPPBE) procedural policy, pursuant to memorandum Delegations of Authority for the Air Force Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (SPPBE) Process, dated 20 December 2016.  6 HAFMD1-19  28 APRIL 2017 ATTACHMENT 2 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (MANAGEMENT) (SAF/MG)  A2.1.  The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, Management (SAF/MG) is responsible for the overall supervision of all matters pertaining to Air Force management of business operations.  This responsibility includes oversight, management and strategic advocacy of programs designed to  improve  management  and  execution  processes  across  the  enterprise  via  employment  of continuous  process  improvement  (CPI).    SAF/MG  carries  out  enterprise-wide  transformation initiatives  and  associated  activities,  and  oversees  implementation  of  CPI/LSS  programs  to improve overall effectiveness and efficiency across missions and functions and gain the broadest possible range of organizational improvements.  Responsibilities include the formulation, review and  execution  of  strategies,  plans,  policies,  programs  and  budgets  within  areas  of  SAF/MG responsibility,  to  include  Air  Force  Business  Mission  Area  (BMA)  programs  and  activities.   SAF/MG  serves  as  the  Air  Force  Deputy  Chief  Management  Officer  and  Air  Force  Business Transformation Officer.  The Assistant SAF/MG serves as the Air Force Assistant Deputy Chief Management Officer and the Assistant Air Force Business Transformation Officer. A2.2.  Three-letter/digit subordinate offices include: A2.2.1.  Business  Systems  &  Performance  Directorate  (SAF/MGB).    Advises,  assists  and supports  the  USecAF,  the  CSAF  and  all  principal  civilian  and  military  officials  of  the Department  of  the  Air  Force  concerning  business  systems  policies,  programs  and  best practices.    Interfaces  with  OSD  Deputy  Chief  Management  Office  (ODCMO)  staff  and Military Departments’ Business Transformation staffs on matters involving Air Force BMA interests  and  compliance  with  business  systems  laws,  regulations  and  policies.    Provides oversight  and  technical  expertise  required  to  integrate  plans,  programs,  and  requirements across the business  mission  area portfolio.  Develops  and collaborates on best  practices for HAFMD1-19  28 APRIL 2017 7 mission area capability requirements definition and delivery.  Provides secretariat support to the  Air  Force  DCMO  in  managing  business  systems  governance  through  the  Air  Force Enterprise Senior Working Group and supporting Community of Interest (CoI) Coordination Panel.    Conducts  required  coordination  of  the  annual  and  out-of-cycle  Air  Force  pre-certification  of  business  systems  investments  through  Defense  Business  Council  for  OSD certification.    Develops  and  maintains  Air  Force  performance  management  metrics  and reports  to  Air  Force  senior  officials  as  well  as  to  the  ODCMO  for  DoD  business transformation and performance reporting. A2.2.2.  Integration Directorate (SAF/MGI).  Develops, maintains and implements Air Force Program Action Directive/Program Guidance Letter (PAD/PGL) policy, performs day-to-day enterprise-wide  PAD/PGL  portfolio  management  and  coordinates  status  across  PAD/PGL leads.    Provides  EPIC  Executive  Secretariat  support.    Provides  guidance  and  oversight  of audit  recommendation  implementation  tracking.    Serves  as  SAF/MG  lead  for  Air  Force corporate  strategic  planning,  programming,  budgeting,  and  execution  process  and  executes SAF/MG’s annual budget.  Direct support to the Defense Business Council via membership on  the  ODCMO-chaired  Fourth  Estate  Working  Group.    Performs  Contract  Officer Representative (COR) duties for all SAF/MG-managed contract services.  Lead for SAF/MG military and civilian personnel actions. A2.2.3.  Management Improvement Directorate (SAF/MGM).  Develops and implements Air Force-wide policy and capabilities for CPI, leverages innovation and efficiency ideas (from front-line  Airmen  innovation  to  strategic  initiatives).    Direct  technical  oversight  of  the Airmen Powered by Innovation (API) organization administratively housed in the Air Force Manpower Analysis Agency (AFMAA).  Advises and assists in accomplishing strategic level CPI projects and related performance improvements.  Partners with the Air Force Directorate of Manpower, Organization, and Resources (AF/A1M) and AFMAA to provide oversight to process reengineering activities required for new or updated manpower standards.  Develops and  implements  appropriate  education  and  training  procedures  from  executive  leader  to CPI/LSS  practitioner  certification  consistent  with  DoD-wide  guidelines  and  standards.  Manages Air Force award programs associated with innovation and CPI.  Provides required staff  support  to  the  DCMO  in  his/her  role  as  Headquarters  Air  Force  services  contract advocate  and  chair  of  the  Support  Services  Requirements  Review  (SSRR)  boards.  Collaborates with the Air Force Program Executive Officer for Combat and Mission Support and  other  Air  Force,  DoD,  and  federal  sector  organizations  to  eliminate  contract redundancies, leverage efficiencies, lessons learned, and best practices for strategic sourcing.  