BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  OF THE AIR FORCE HEADQUARTERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 16-1  25 APRIL 2017 Operations Support SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE (SECAF)/CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE AIR FORCE (CSAF) COUNTERPART VISIT (CPV) AND AIR CHIEFS’ SYMPOSIUM (ACS) PROGRAMS COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication  OPR:  SAF/IA AFFLO  Supersedes:  HOI 16-1, 10 June 2014  Certified by: SAF/IA  (Ms. Heidi H. Grant) Pages: 8    This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 16-1, Security Cooperation, and outlines  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff  responsibilities  for  visits  of  foreign  nationals  to  the  United States (US) under the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF)/Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) foreign  bilateral  Counterpart  Visit  (CPV)  program  and  multilateral  Air  Chiefs’  Symposium (ACS) program.  This publication applies to all Headquarters Air Force (HAF) organizations that plan  or  execute  SecAF/CSAF  CPVs  and  ACSs.    Funding  is  governed  by  Air  Force  Instruction (AFI)  65-603,  Official  Representation  Funds.    All  other  foreign  national  visits  are  conducted according  to  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  16-101,  International  Affairs  &  Security  Assistance Management,  and  AFI  16-201,  Air  Force  Foreign  Disclosure  and  Technology  Transfer Program. Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this  publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary Responsibility  using  the  AF  Form  847,  Recommendation  for  Change  of  Publication;  route  AF Forms  847  from  the  field  through  appropriate  functional’s  chain  of  command.    Ensure  that  all records  created  as  a  result  of  processes  prescribed  in  this  publication  are  maintained  in accordance  with  (IAW)  AFMAN  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and  disposed  of  IAW  Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. 2 HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 SUMMARY OF CHANGES Recent  changes  to  this  publication  include  updated  organizational  titles  and  structure  to  reflect reorganizations within HAF, updated CSAF guidance on who may be included in official parties, and clarified procedures to select countries for CPVs. 1.  Air  Force  Guidance:  For  the  United  States  Air  Force  (USAF),  only  the  SecAF  and  the CSAF may extend official courtesies to foreign guests of the Department of Defense (DoD). This guidance  does  not  preclude  Secretariat  and  Air  Staff  organizations  and  the  commanders  of  the Air Force (AF) major commands (MAJCOMs) from extending invitations IAW AFMAN 16-101 and  AFI  16-201  to  foreign  nationals  to  participate  in  various  meetings  and/or  symposia  at  the visitor’s own expense. 2.  Responsibilities.  The CSAF determines how many invitational foreign engagements to host each  year.    The  Office  of  the  Deputy  Under  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  International  Affairs (SAF/IA),  Air  Force  Foreign  Liaison  Office  (AFFLO),  is  the  lead  office  for  planning  and executing the SecAF/CSAF bilateral CPV program and multilateral ACS program. 2.1.  AFFLO will: 2.1.1.  Contact,  no  later  than  the  outset  of  the  second  quarter  of  each  calendar  year, selected  MAJCOM  commanders  and  component  commanders  --  to  include  Pacific  Air Forces,  US  Air  Forces  in  Europe/Africa,  Air  Forces  Central,  Air  Forces  Southern,  Air Forces  Northern,  Air  Combat  Command,  Air  Force  Space  Command,  Air  Mobility Command, Air Education and Training Command, Air Force Materiel Command and Air Force  Special  Operations  Command  --  requesting  recommendations  for  upcoming bilateral  CPVs  and  multilateral  ACSs  for  the  next  calendar  year.    The  tasking  message will  contain  CSAF  intent  and  program  guidelines  for  the  coming  year.    Tasked organizations  should  reply  to  AFFLO  per  message  instructions.  (NOTE:    The  CSAF-hosted multilateral ACSs -- typically the North Atlantic Treaty Organization [NATO] Air Chiefs’  Symposium  and  the  Pacific  Air  Chiefs’  Symposium  --  are  held  in  alternating years, unless the CSAF elects to convene a different type of Air Chiefs’ Symposium in a given  year.    The  Conference  of  the  American  Air  Chiefs  [CONJEFAMER]  is  held annually  but  is  hosted  by  member  countries  on  a  rotational  basis;  the  US  only  hosts CONJEFAMER when the organizing committee [the System of Cooperation Among the Air  Forces  of  the  Americas]  determines  there  is  no  alternative  host  country  and  the  US has offered to host.) 2.1.2.  Consolidate  and  distribute  all  MAJCOM  and  component  inputs  to  SAF/IA,  the Deputy  Chief  of  Staff  for  Strategic  Plans  and  Requirements  (AF/A5/8),  and  the  CSAF Political  Advisor  (POLAD)  in  preparation  for  a  AFFLO-hosted  O-6-level  meeting  with those agencies. 2.1.3.  Schedule  the  O-6-level  meeting  with  SAF/IA,  POLAD,  and  AF/A5/8  to  review and  discuss  all  inputs  and  forward  a  consolidated  list  of  recommendations  for  top-line coordination by POLAD, SAF/IA, AF/A5/8, the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CVA) and the Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CV).  Once coordination is complete, send the list to the CSAF for consideration/approval. HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 3 2.1.4.  Meet,  no  later  than  the  outset  of  the  fourth  quarter  of  each  calendar  year,  with CSAF’s Confidential Assistant to block dates on CSAF’s schedule for the  next calendar year’s  bilateral  CPVs  and  multilateral  ACSs.    (NOTE:    The  multilateral  ACSs  are generally held in conjunction with the Air Force Association’s annual September Air and Space Conference and Technology Exposition, although this is not mandatory.) 2.1.5.  Notify  affected  MAJCOM  commanders  and  component  commanders,  as  well  as applicable  US  air  attachés/representatives,  of  CSAF’s  decision  regarding  upcoming bilateral CPVs and multilateral ACSs. 2.1.6.  Provide  available  dates  (as  established  in  paragraph  2.1.4)  for  bilateral  CPVs  to selected  US  air  attachés/representatives  overseas,  directing  them  to  work  with  host nations  to  establish preferred dates (one primary  and two alternate selections).  Receive replies  and  assign  countries  to  CPV  date  options  to  maximize  foreign  engagement opportunities. 2.1.7.  Prepare  and  transmit  formal  invitation(s)  to  the  selected  air  chief(s)  on  behalf  of CSAF,  inviting  the  air  chief(s)  to  participate  in  the  bilateral  CPV  or  multilateral  ACS.  Send the invitation through the US air attaché/representative in country. 2.1.8.  Provide  a  courtesy  letter  or  notification  to  applicable  Washington,  DC-based foreign  attachés  informing  them  of  the  selection  of  their  air  chief  to  participate  in  a bilateral CPV or multilateral ACS. 2.1.9.  Plan  itineraries,  estimate  costs,  and  manage  the  visits  of  foreign  distinguished visitors hosted or sponsored by the CSAF. 2.1.9.1.  Inside  the  National  Capital  Region  (NCR),  coordinate  all  logistical  support with  a  single  focal  point  at  Air  Force  District  of  Washington  (AFDW)  Ceremonies and Protocol.   (NOTE:   For bilateral  CPVs only, if the visiting air  chief’s spouse is attending,  AFFLO  will  coordinate  with  CSAF’s  spouse  to  organize  a  separate spouses’ program.) 2.1.9.2.  When  travelling  outside  the  NCR,  coordinate  all  logistical  support  with  a single  point-of-contact  at  the  respective  host  wing/organization.    (NOTE:    For bilateral CPVs only, if the air chief’s spouse is attending, a separate spouses’ program will be organized by the host wing/organization in coordination with AFFLO.) 2.1.9.3.  For bilateral CPVs only, prepare and staff a Legion of Merit presentation for the visiting air chief, as applicable. 2.1.10.  Coordinate  with  the  Departments  of  State,  Defense,  Army,  and  Navy  --  where necessary -- for both bilateral CPVs and multilateral ACSs. 2.1.11.  Request,  based  on  background  and  availability,  a  general  officer  to  serve  as escort  for  the  visiting  air  chief(s).    The  appropriate  MAJCOM  commander  will  appoint the escort general officer from his or her area of responsibility.  Normally, the MAJCOM commander himself or herself (or Numbered Air Force commander, as appropriate) will serve as the escort general officer. 2.1.12.  Ensure appropriate US and foreign representation on the official party.  AFFLO will  assign  one  action  officer  to  escort  the  official  party  and  another  to  act  as  paying agent  during  the  official  visit.    Action  officers  will  remain  with  the  official  party  at  all 4 HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 times  unless  otherwise  directed  by  CSAF  or  the  escorting  general  officer.    (NOTE:  AFFLO  may  include  additional,  permanently-assigned  action  officers  on  any  visit  for training  purposes,  although  each  AFFLO  action  officer  may  participate  in  a  training capacity only once as a paying agent and once as a lead planner.) 2.1.12.1.  The official party for a CSAF bilateral CPV consists of the visiting air chief and  spouse  and  no  more  than  three  accompanying  staff  officers.    The  Washington, DC-based air attaché (or defense attaché) from the visiting country and his/her spouse (if  the  air  chief’s  spouse  is  attending)  are  included  in  the  official  party  at  the discretion  of  the  CSAF.    Additionally,  the  official  party  will  include  the  US-host general  officer  and  spouse  (if  air  chief’s  spouse  is  attending),  the  US  air  attaché, AFFLO action officers,  Office of Special  Investigation agents,  and interpreter(s) (as necessary). 2.1.12.2.  The  official  party  for  a  multilateral  ACS  consists  of  the  visiting  air  chiefs and no more than one accompanying staff officer for each.  Additionally, the official party will include the US escort general officer with no more than one accompanying staff officer, AFFLO Director, AFFLO action officers, Office of Special Investigation agents, flight doctor, air staff photographer, a MAJCOM POLAD representative, and interpreter(s) (as necessary).  Up to two additional representatives from SAF/IA may also be included, at the discretion of the CSAF. (NOTE:  When an ACS is conducted at a non-government facility in the NCR, NCR-based US government members of the official party are authorized lodging and reimbursement of expenses associated with the non-government facility.) 2.1.12.3.  CSAF is the final approval authority for any personnel added to the official party.    The  requesting  US  unit/organization  will  provide  funding  and  logistics  for additional  travelers,  if  approved.    Exceptions  to  guidance  and  exceptions  to procedures resulting in an increase in the size and expense of the foreign delegation must  be  approved  by  the  Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (SAF/AA)  and  reviewed  by  the  General  Counsel  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force (SAF/GC). 2.1.13.  Prepare and forward a photo  album to  the US  air attaché/representative or local host-nation  attaché  for  presentation  to  each  air  chief  upon  completion  of  the  bilateral CPV or multilateral ACS.  The album, with photos compiled and printed by Secretary of the Air Force Photo Branch (SAF/PAI), provides pictorial documentation of the official visit  and  serves  as  a  keepsake  for  the  air  chief.    Funding  will  be  provided  by  official representation funds and will be included in the aggregate gift value allowance afforded gifts given by the CSAF during bilateral CPVs or multilateral ACSs. 2.1.14.  After  the  visit  concludes,  prepare  and  forward  letters  of  appreciation  to  visited base/installation  commanders  for  support  provided  by  their  visit  focal  point(s)  in conjunction with a CPV or ACS. 2.2.  Headquarters Air Force Directorates (HAF 2-Letters) shall: 2.2.1.  As requested, recommend foreign air chiefs for participation in upcoming CPVs or ACSs. HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 5 2.2.2.  As requested, provide recommendations on content of specific visit, i.e., briefings to be presented, locations to be visited, office calls to be held. 2.2.3.  As directed, remain available to attend all NCR briefings and office calls. 2.2.4.  As directed, participate in official receptions, arrival ceremonies, or other events in honor of the visiting air chiefs. 2.2.5.  As  directed,  conduct  and  expedite  required  security  background  checks,  supply information and coordinate and facilitate any Legion of Merit award packages submitted for select air chiefs to Office of the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) for approval. 2.2.6.  Prepare  and  present  briefings  to  the  visiting  air  chief.    Assist  AFFLO  with collecting  inputs  and  building  briefing  books  for  CSAF,  AF/CV,  AF/CVA,  and  all principals present at the briefing table, including the official party. 2.3.  SAF/IA shall: 2.3.1.  Assist, as the senior HAF representative, AFFLO project officer(s) with verifying the  CPV  or  ACS  –  as  executed  –  adheres  as  closely  as  possible  to  CSAF’s  approved intentions for the visit. 2.3.2.  Provide  a  comprehensive  after  action  report  within  30  days  of  visit/event completion. 2.4.  For a bilateral CPV, the US air attaché/representative is responsible for writing a daily report throughout the course of the visit.  The unclassified report will be emailed at the end of each  day  to  the  AFFLO  Director  and  will  provide  a  summary  of  the  day’s  activities, emphasizing key issues raised during briefings and/or discussions with USAF senior leaders. 2.5.  For a multilateral ACS, the MAJCOM POLAD representative is responsible for writing a daily report throughout the course of the visit.  The unclassified report will be emailed at the  end  of  each  day  to  the  AFFLO  Director  and  will  provide  a  summary  of  the  day’s activities,  emphasizing  key  issues  raised  during  briefings  and/or  discussions  with  USAF senior leaders. 3.  Request for Funds/Funding Issues: 3.1.  All funds requests must be coordinated IAW HOI 65-3, HQ USAF Guidance for Official Representation Funds, through Secretary of the Air Force Resource Directorate (SAF/AAR) and approved in advance of the visit by SAF/AA. 3.2.  As thoroughly as possible, the AFFLO paying agent will estimate all costs by category of  expense  (food,  lodging,  in-flight  expense,  transportation,  and  cultural  program).    An additional five percent may be provided above the overall projected cost to the paying agent to  cover  unforeseen  costs.  Utilizing  these  “overage”  funds  during  the  trip  requires  advance approval of the escort general officer.  If actual costs for an event exceed the estimated cost, the paying agent will inform SAF/AAR as soon as practical. 3.3.  All expenditures will be IAW AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds. 3.4.  In the event that participation in a CSAF bilateral CPV or multilateral ACS proves cost-prohibitive  for  an  invited  country,  other  funding  sources  for  the  travel  to  and  from  the contiguous US (CONUS) may be considered, consistent with AF and DoD policies.  Section 6 HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 1051  of  Title  10,  US  Code  allows  the  SecDef  to  authorize  use  of  appropriated  funds  for “travel,  subsistence,  and  similar  personal  expenses  of  defense  personnel  of  developing countries in  connection  with  the attendance of such personnel  at  a multilateral,  bilateral,  or regional  conference,  seminar,  or  similar  meeting  if  the  Secretary  determines  that  the attendance of such personnel… is in the national security interests of the United States.” 3.5.  For a bilateral CPV, the USAF will fund the transportation costs (air and ground travel), lodging,  meals  and  other  expenses  for  the  visiting  party  during  the  official  program.    The visiting  chief’s  government  will  be  responsible  for  all  expenses  incurred  while  en  route  to, and after departure from, the official program. 3.6.  For  a  multilateral  ACS,  the  USAF  will  fund  the  transportation  costs  (air  and  ground travel),  lodging,  meals  and  other  expenses  for  each  visiting  air  chief  during  the  official program; the visiting chief’s government will be responsible for all expenses incurred while en  route  to,  and  after  departure  from,  the  official  program.    For  each  air  chief’s accompanying staff officer, the USAF will fund only the transportation costs (air travel and ground)  during  the  official  program;  the  staff  officer’s  government  will  be  responsible  for funding  all  lodging,  meals,  and  other  expenses  for  the  staff  officer  for  the  entirety  of  the official program, as well as the staff officer’s transportation to and from the official program.  (NOTE:  As appropriate, an ACS official program may begin and end at a designated rally point.) 3.7.  The AFFLO paying agent  will turn in  excess  funds after the conclusion of a visit,  and  final accounting will be accomplished within 30 calendar days.  If the accounting cannot be submitted  within  30  calendar  days,  the  paying  agent  will  notify  SAF/AAR  in  writing  and request an extension with justification for the request and an estimated filing date. 3.8.  The  escort  general  officer  and  escorting  US  attaché  must  plan  to  fund  their  personal TDY expenditures not covered by HAF.  These expenses will include the commercial flight to  the  program’s  point  of  origin  (to  include  for  the  general  officer’s  spouse,  if  also participating  in  a  bilateral  CPV)  and  return  travel  to  their  duty  stations  following  the completion of the visit, as well as associated lodging and per diem costs.  PATRICIA J. ZARODKIEWICZ Administrative Assistant HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 7 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION Attachment 1 References AFPD 16-1, Security Cooperation, 12 November 2015 AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds, 24 August 2011 AFMAN 16-101, International Affairs & Security Assistance Management, 15 February 2011 AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 2 June 2015 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 HOI 65-3, HQ USAF Guidance For Official Representation Funds, 1 March 2008 US Code Title 10 Section 1051, Multilateral, bilateral, or regional cooperation programs: payment of personnel expenses, 3 January 2012 Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms ACS— Air Chiefs’ Symposium AF/A5/8— Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Requirements AF/CV— Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force AF/CVA— Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force AFDW— Air Force District of Washington AFFLO— Air Force Foreign Liaison Office AFI— Air Force Instruction AFMAN— Air Force Manual AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive CONJEFAMER— Conference of the American Air Chiefs CONUS— Contiguous United States CPV— Counterpart Visit CSAF— Chief of Staff of the Air Force DoD— Department of Defense HAF— Headquarters Air Force (Secretariat and Air Staff) HOI— Headquarters Operating Instruction IAW— In Accordance With MAJCOM— Major Command 8 HOI16-1  25 APRIL 2017 NATO— North Atlantic Treaty Organization NCR— National Capital Region POLAD— Political Advisor SAF/AA— Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force SAF/AAR— Secretary of the Air Force Resource Directorate SAF/GC— General Counsel to the Secretary of the Air Force SAF/IA— Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs SAF/PAI— Secretary of the Air Force Photo Branch SecAF— Secretary of the Air Force SecDef— Secretary of Defense US— United States USAF— United States Air Force  