BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE HEADQUATERS OPERATING INSTRUCTION 33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 Communications and Information ACQUIRING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES AND SERVICES COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY ACCESSIBILITY:   HAF HOIs are available digitally on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.    OPR:  SAF/AAII  Supersedes:  HOI33-15, 14 July 2011  Certified by: SAF/AAI  (Mr Kent Chadrick) Pages: 8  This publication provides procedures for Headquarters Air Force (HAF) organizations acquiring Information  Technology  (IT)  capabilities  and  services  and  implements  provisions  of  AFMAN 33-152,  User  Responsibilities  and  Guidance  for  Information  Systems.   It  details  the responsibilities  all  Headquarters  Air  Force  personnel  have  when  requesting  IT  capabilities  to support  their  operational  requirements.    Refer  recommended  changes  and  questions  about  this publication  to  the  Office  of  Primary  Responsibility  (OPR)  using  the  AF  Form  847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 through appropriate chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are  maintained  IAW  Air  Force  Manual  (AFMAN)  33-363,  Management  of  Records,  and disposed of  IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in  the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). SUMMARY OF CHANGES This  document  has  been  revised  to  update  organizational  names  and  minor  requirement procedure changes.  The overall requirement process has not changed, but the method to submit requirements  through  StoreFront  and  the  holding  period  waiting  for  funds  were  added  for clarification. to  clarify products/services provided by external organizations like DISA (DoD) and AFNIC (AFNet).   The  process  flow  chart  (Attachment  2)  has  been  updated 2 HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 1.  Overview  of  the  Information  Technology  Requirements  Process.  The  Information Technology  (IT)  requirements  process  enables  HAF  organizations  (users)  to  obtain  IT capabilities and services with the assistance of the 844th Communications Group (844 CG) and the Headquarters Air Force Information Management Office (SAF/AAI).  SAF/AAI Director has the Chief  Information  Officer (CIO) responsibilities for the HAF.   The process  for all HAF  IT related  requirements  begins  when  a  user  identifies  a  need  (in  functional  terms)  that  potentially requires a solution(s) involving IT capabilities and services.  Users submit their requirements to the https://52tayz-ws-005v/kinetic/DisplayPage?name=Storefront_Home.    HAF  IT  capabilities  and  services  are grouped  in  two  categories:  enterprise-wide  (centrally  funded)  and  functionally  unique  (user funded). the  AFNCR StoreFront 844  CG using ITS at 1.1.  Enterprise-wide requirements  are those currently supported by the HAF or AFNet as standard  products  and  services,  such  as  laptops/desktops  and  peripherals,  secure  and  non-secure  voice,  infrastructure  and  communications,  and  standard  enterprise  software.  Enterprise-wide  requirements  will  be  satisfied  using  current  HAF  and  AFNet  supported capabilities  and  thus  will  have  no  impact  on  HAF  or  AFNet  IT  infrastructure,  architecture, standards, or policies.  They are centrally funded by SAF/AAI and purchased/maintained by 844  CG.    When  sufficient  funding  is  not  available,  users  will  provide  funding  for  these purchases.    Funded  enterprise-wide  requirements  may  be  processed  directly  by  844  CG without SAF/AAI involvement. 1.2.  Functionally  unique  requirements  are  those  user-funded  IT  capabilities  used  by  a limited  number  of  organizations  in  the  HAF  to  satisfy  unique  mission  requirements.    They are  capabilities  and/or  services  not  currently  part  of  the  standard  products  and  services supported  by  the  HAF,  AFNet  or  DoD.    Requirements  that  potentially  involve  servers  or server-based applications are automatically categorized as functionally unique requirements.  Functionally  unique  requirements  must  be  evaluated  for  their  potential  impact  on  the  HAF and  AFNet’s  IT  infrastructure,  architecture,  standards,  and  policies.    Each  requesting organization  is  responsible  for  funding  the  functionally  unique  requirements  and  their sustainment. 1.3.  All functionally unique requirements, as well as unfunded enterprise-wide requirements, require  SAF/AAI  involvement  and  approval.    In  some  cases,  they  may  require  AFNet involvement and approval.  If these requirements are approved, but not funded, they will be held  pending  funds  sourcing  for  up  to  30  days.    Once  funding  is  secured,  approved  IT solutions will be acquired, implemented, and sustained by the 844 CG. 2.  Responsibilities.  The  HAF  organization  (requesting  user)  shall  identify  its  requirements  in functional  terms  with  the  assistance  of  their  organization’s  Unit  Information  Technology Requirements Officer (UITRO).  The requirement statement must describe the needed capability, and  not  a  solution  or  product.    The  requirement  statement  should  indicate  when  a  secure capability is  required.  When necessary, include  special requirements, such as accommodations for users with special needs, special operating conditions, manpower, training, and maintenance.  If specific equipment is required, a justification must be provided. 2.1.  The  UITRO  is  the  interface  between  the  user  and  844  CG.    Each  HAF  2-Ltr organization  (including  Direct  Reporting  Units  and  Field  Operating  Agencies  that  receive 844  CG  support)  must  designate  two  UITROs;  a  primary  and  an  alternate.    The  UITROs HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 3 must be familiar with their organization’s IT-enabled business processes.  The UITRO assists in submitting and approving requirements, reviewing and evaluating recommended technical solutions,  ensuring  the  final  capability  or  service  meets  the  requirement,  and  cancelling  or closing requirements  when  necessary.  Organizations  submit  UITRO  appointment memorandum (usaf.pentagon.844cs.mbx.844cs-requirements-processing@mail.mil). 844  CG/SCX to IT solutions 2.2.  The  844  CG,  as  the  HAF’s  IT  provider  and  systems  integrator,  is  responsible  for ensuring assurance, interoperability, maintenance, and supportability standards.  The 844 CG is also responsible for  the  solution  development,  planning  and  implementation,  and  for  maintenance  of  the implemented solution within the HAF IT infrastructure. compliance, information architecture address 2.3.  The  HAF  Information  Management  Directorate  (SAF/AAI)  provides  strategic direction and oversight for HAF IT investments.  SAF/AAI must ensure HAF IT investments are  compatible  with  DoD,  Air  Force,  and  HAF  enterprise  architectures,  and  that  they  are compliant with all governing IT standards.   2.4.  The HAF Resources Directorate (SAF/AAR) provides final funding decisions on HAF IT investments and advocates for funding through the AF Corporate Structure.   2.5.  The  Information  Technology  Management  Board  (ITMB),  co-chaired  by  SAF/AA and  AF/CVA,  with  membership  from  all  HAF  2-Ltrs,  is  the  senior  management  forum  for information resource management (IRM) within the HAF.  The ITMB provides information technology (IT) vision to improve the mission performance of the HAF. 2.6.  The  Information  Technology  Management  Board  Working  Group  (ITMB-WG), chaired by SAF/AAI, consists of O-6 or GS-15 level members representing each HAF 2-Ltr member of the ITMB.  The ITMB WG supports and deliberates on behalf of their ITMB in matters pertaining to HAF IT investments.   3.  Identifying  Requirements,  Coordination,  and  Processing.  The  HAF  IT  capabilities  and services  acquisition  process  (Attachment  2)  starts  when  a  user  identifies  an  IT  requirement  to support their mission. 3.1.  The  UITRO  first  determines  if  non-materiel  solutions  will  satisfy  the  requirement.    In some instances, enterprise-wide capabilities may exist which support some, if not all, of the user’s requirements.  The UITRO can contact 844 CG for assistance in understanding current capabilities.   3.2.  If  an  enterprise-wide  capability  is  not  available  to  address  the  requirement,  the  user, with  the guidance and approval  of the UITRO, can request  the assistance of the 844 CG to evaluate their requirements and recommend a functionally unique technical solution. 3.2.1.  The  UITRO’s  principal  criteria  for  requirements  approval  should  be:  (1)  mission required;  (2)  non-duplicative  and  cost  effective;  (3)  significantly  enhance  mission outcomes; (4) satisfy a validated need for improvement. 3.2.2.  All HAF IT investments (e.g., programming and/or budgeting for new capabilities, developmental  evaluations,  system  modernization,  and  sustainment)  must  be  requested (https://52tayz-ws-via 005v/kinetic/DisplayPage?name=Storefront_Home.) true  regardless  of website   This StoreFront AFNCR ITS the is 4 HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 whether  these  requirements  have  been  pre-approved  for  funding  by  the  Air  Force Corporate Structure, and include capabilities and services to be hosted outside the HAF.  New requirements in StoreFront must be approved by the UITRO within 7 calendar days. 3.2.3.  All IT related requests must be coordinated with 844 CG, via the StoreFront, even if 844 CG will not be providing the requested capabilities or services.  This coordination must  be  accomplished  prior  to  soliciting  a  contract,  transferring  funds  for  purchase,  or making  a  purchase  via  a  government  purchase  card.      This  must  be  done  to  ensure  IT solutions  address  architectural, interoperability,  follow-on maintenance, and supportability standards. information  assurance, 3.3.  Prior to assessing possible technical solutions, 844 CG will validate and categorize the requirements  as  enterprise-wide  (including  DoD  or  AFNet  services)  or  functionally  unique based on the criteria outlined in section 1.1 - 1.2. 3.3.1.  844  CG  will  involve  SAF/AAI  on  all  functionally  unique  requirements  to determine if these requirements comply with all laws, regulations, and policies including AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development.   3.3.2.  SAF/AAII  will  assess  and  present for consideration.  SAF/AAI will assess the requirement and will notify the user, the UITRO, and the 844 CG of the final decision.  Approved requirements are forwarded to the 844 CG to develop and implement a technical solution.  recommendations to  SAF/AAI 3.4.  The 844 CG will process and implement all HAF funded enterprise-wide requirements and all approved and funded functionally unique requirements. 4.  Developing a Technical Solution. 4.1.  For  unique  and/or  non-standard  requirements,  the  844  CG  completes  a  Technical Assessment and Cost Estimate (TACE) for the user’s approved requirement.  If needed, 844 CG  may  request  SAF/AAII  assistance  regarding  policies,  standards,  and  architecture compliance  of  potential  solutions.    The  summary  of  potential  solutions  and  the  844  CG’s recommended course of action to satisfy the requirement will then be presented to the 2-Ltr UITRO  and  user  for  evaluation.    The  customer  has  30  days  to  review  and  fund  or  request changes to the TACE. 4.2.  The  user  reviews  the  solution  to  ensure  it  satisfies  the  requirement  and  addresses  any outstanding  issues  with  the  844  CG  project  manager.    If  modifications  are  needed  to  the selected solution, the 844 CG will ensure these modifications have no impact to the AFNet and HAF IT infrastructure, architecture, standards, and policies.  5.  Implementing the Technical Solution. 5.1.  The 844 CG will take the required steps to meet HAF enterprise-wide requirements. 5.2.  The 844 CG will develop a plan to implement approved functionally unique and/or non-standard  requirements.    This  plan  and  other  necessary  documents  will  follow  all  required standards, policies, and architectures.  The 844 CG project manager will contact SAF/AAII if there are potential issues/concerns. 5.3.  SAF/AAII  will  review  these  documents  for  standards,  policies,  and  architecture compliance;  and  will  cross-reference  them  with  current  capabilities  to  avoid  potential HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 5 duplication.    If  changes  are  required,  SAF/AAII  will  forward  its  findings  to  the  844  CG project manager. 5.4.  Upon SAF AAI’s approval, and user fund committed (transferred), the 844 CG project manager  will  proceed  to  the  implementation  of  an  accepted  solution  based  on  compliance with all policies, standards, and architecture. 6.  Post Implementation. 6.1.  Upon  completion  of  the  implementation  of  the  approved  solution,  the  844  CG  will notify the user that the solution is in production and available for use. 6.2.  Using  documented  performance  measures  and  expected  improvements,  the  user  will validate  that  deliverables  meet  the  user  requirement.    If  the  expected  features  and functionalities  are  not  delivered  by  the  final  solution,  the  user  will  contact  844  CG  for resolution. 6.3.  Resolution  of  issues  on  systems/solutions  not  delivered  or  managed  by  844  CG  will require  the  user,  with  844  CG  involvement,  to  contact  the  respective  vendor/integrator  or organization. 7.  Funding. 7.1.  Funding  Sources.    Funding  sources  for  IT  solutions  include  the  user,  the  HAF enterprise,  and  the  lead  command/component  in  the  case  of  Service  or  Department-wide programs.    IT  requirements  may  also  be  endorsed  by  SAF/AAI  and  compete  for  funding through the SAF/AAR to the Air Force Corporate Structure. 7.2.  User-funded Requirements.  Upon approval of the requirement and associated solution, funds are transferred to  844 CG to  purchase the  solution  (product  and/or  service).  Prior to acquisition, the user will ensure funds  are available and  approved.   In some cases, the user will  be  responsible  for  the  yearly  sustainment  cost  and  must  ensure  out-year  funds  are available and approved. 7.3.  Funds  Hold.    If  funds  are  not  available  for  the  solution  and  844  CG  services  do  not cover  the  requirement,  the  user  is  responsible  for  the  funding  with  the  requirement  being placed  on  funds  hold.    Generally,  funding  must  be  identified  within  30  days  or  the requirement  will  be  closed.    The  844  CG  project  manager  will  notify  the  user  that  the requirement is being closed before reaching the 30-day limit.  If funds become available after the requirement is closed, the user can resubmit the requirement, and a new tracking number will be assigned.  PATRICIA J. ZARODKIEWICZ Administrative Assistant 6 HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ATTACHMENT 1 References AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 June 2012 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Prescribed Forms No prescribed forms. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Abbreviations and Acronyms 844 CG —844th Communications Group CIO —Chief Information Officer HAF – Headquarters, Department of the Air Force  IT – Information Technology ITMB —Information Technology Management Board ITMB-WG —ITMB Working Group NCR —National Capital Region SLA —Service Level Agreement UITRO —Unit Information Technology Requirements Officer Terms Enterprise—wide  Products  and  Services  include  all  sustainment  services,  and  all  standard products and services (IT Capabilities) approved by the ITMB for use across the HAF; these may include DoD or Air Force (AFNet) provided products and services.   Enterprise—wide  Requirement  is  one  that  can  be  satisfied  by  an  enterprise-wide  product  or service (IT Capabilities).  Functionally  Unique  Products  and  Services  —include  all  sustainment  services,  and  all products and services (IT Capabilities) that must be satisfied by a unique IT capability used by only one or a limited number of HAF 2-Ltr offices. Functionally  Unique  Requirement  —is  one  that  cannot  be  satisfied  by  an  enterprise-wide product or service and must be satisfied by a unique IT capability used by only one or a limited number of HAF 2-Ltr offices. Headquarters, Department of the Air Force (HAF) —in the context of this HOI encompasses Secretariat  and  Air  Staff  organizations  to  include  offices  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Air  Force,  the HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 7 Undersecretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force and Assistant to the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force. Information  Assurance  (IA)  —consists  of  100  percent  accreditation  of  HAF  information systems and requires the design and implementation of effective risk management. Mission Unique Software —is software purchased by a customer organization for their mission specific  needs;  it  is  tested  by  844  CG  prior  to  deployment  to  ensure  proper  operation  with  the SID. New  Requirements  —are  requests  for  capabilities  (usually  satisfied  by  hardware  or  software) not in the existing 844 CG operations and maintenance baseline that must be procured through the IT requirements (AFNCR ITS StoreFront) process. Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA)  —is  a  documented  agreement  that  establishes  a  common understanding of service support to be provided and defines mutual responsibilities between its signatories (HAF Directorates (i.e., 2-Ltr Offices) and the 844 CG for example. Sustainment  Services  —are  those  needed  to  maintain  and  repair  present  capabilities,  enhance performance,  ensure  HAF  IT  keeps  pace  with  technology  advancement,  and  secure  our information. Unit  Information  Technology  Requirements  Officer  (UITRO)  —serves  as  manager  and liaison for all requirements and IT capabilities of their HAF Directorate. User —is a HAF Organization or IT customer.    8 HOI33-15  8 OCTOBER 2015 ATTACHMENT 2 HAF IT CAPABILITIES AND SERVICES ACQUISITION PROCESSS A2.1.  Figure A2.1 outlines the HAF IT Capabilities and Services Acquisition Process. Figure A2.1.  HAF IT Capabilities and Services Acquisition Process Flow.  